e
e e
well good
morning this is an audio check
now before we get into
this uh my comment
section and my text messages on my cell
phone and email box and every form of
communication that anyone could get to
me everyone was trying to let me know
that the volume was too low
yesterday and
I'm doing the same thing I did yesterday
okay uh I noticed that that some of the
individuals that left comments saying
that the audio was too low um or that I
was using a cheap microphone or whatever
um I actually have good equipment to
sometimes YouTube just doesn't want to
Comm communicate the way a streamer
would like them to do and I'm not doing
anything different today um I went
through the process of checking
everything I have the microphone
literally almost clipping there's a
little gauge that shows how how high the
audio goes up as I speak and I'm and I'm
at the last little line before it goes
into the orange and then it's in red
then it starts clipping when then it's
really bad audio
so the compression and all of the things
that YouTube does on it servers
sometimes corrects any issues through
the capture of live
streaming I've actually had this happen
in some of the you know the not live
session but lectures and videos I've
made in the past where the audio even on
my um side when I would listen to it
would sound different than my original
capture that's on my system so I'm not
doing anything to try to make it harder
for you to listen to me uh I'm not using
substandard equipment I have pretty good
amount of money and stuff I'm using and
I don't know what else to do so my
volumes exactly would it's supposed to
be my microphone is working properly and
I don't know what else to tell you okay
so uh if you're sending me text messages
by the way um I don't ever really get to
see them until later on and uh generally
I block your phone number because you
you took it upon yourself to to step
into my private area of my life and I
know my phone number and my address and
all those things are on the internet um
I'm not inviting you to send me text
messages so uh you can send me something
one time but I'll never see it again
because you you've crossed that line
it's kind of like the people that come
to my door and knock on the door I'd
like to meet you and talk to you ICT
please don't do that I'm not I'm not
going to go out there and talk to you
I'm not going to shake your hand I'm not
going to do a selfie with you I'm not
that important so anyway today um it's
going to be a little bit more technical
but I promise it won't be too much and
it won't be a long session okay
um I have a eye appointment tomorrow
just so you guys know for scheduling
purposes uh we will be doing an
afternoon lecture so we'll be doing a PM
session and some rule based ideas for
you to look at the market during that
time Caleb and so I won't be here
tomorrow morning session but we'll start
the stream at 1:30 p.m. eastern time
tomorrow so Wednesday session will be an
afternoon session and then uh Thursday
we'll be back to a morning session and
Friday will be a morning session as well
okay so one things I want you to
understand Caleb is you when you're
doing your journaling and your logging
which is what you're going to be
primarily doing for the full month of
August okay you're not trying to push
any buttons you're not trying to demo
trade you're not trying
to do anything specific about entering
the market but you're just collecting
data collecting information and you're
being organized so that way it's
training and activating your particular
activating system okay I means the when
you see a car that you just
bought it seems like everybody else
bought the same car it's only because
it's now meaningful to you so the things
I introduced yesterday I kind of like
want to give you the rule based idea on
what it is very specific and I have to
clarify a few things because it was live
streamed yesterday and I said a couple
things incorrectly after listening to
the playback and a couple of you
actually reached out to me an email and
questioned them questioned me about what
I I meant about certain areas of my
dialogue and I realized I didn't say
something correctly and for instance it
was me referring to the second stage of
reaccumulation I called it miscalled it
second stage redistribution well that's
for Market maker sale model but because
I'm out here without a script I'm not
following Q cards I'm not reading a
teleprompter I I'm just going on my own
stee and just what I see at the time so
I'm going to invariably make a mistake
of Mis calling something it's not
intentional it's not to confuse you or
anything um but I'm human so I'm not AI
like some of you actually think I am I I
I have frailties and faults just like
any one of you so if I'm out here in
front of the world doing it
live I'm going to make a mistake say
something in incorrectly I'm going to
you know have no way of editing that out
and make it more pable for a firsttime
viewer to listen to it and not have any
distractions by something I did as a
human being uh and that's why I prefer
always to do uh pre-recorded lectures
because my obsessive compulsive this
wouldn't let me do the live streaming um
but I've spent a lot of time in the last
year or so just getting over a lot of
that stuff and uh I'm in my 50s so I'm
trying to take things a little bit
easier I I make things too personal when
it don't need to be so anyway uh I
introduced some things yesterday VIs
ually I talked about what the market was
going to do why it should behave a
specific way and how you should be
comfortable sitting in front of the
charts and observing and getting used to
doing that in initially and not trying
to force yourself into try and to pick a
Direction so you can impress dad uh not
try to tell me what you think's going to
happen beforehand so that way you can
tell Dad hey I I did that right remove
the right and wrong right now just get
that out of your head you've already
sent me text messages tell me what you
think's going to happen okay now for the
purposes for everyone here to know what
he sent me I'm not going to be able show
you the screen but I'm going to read I
didn't actually read it word by word but
I want you to see what Caleb's
expectations were are for today and this
is without any prodding or coaxing on my
part um at
7:33 a.m. he sends me a chart that I
really don't understand what he's
showing me so that's the point of
today's lesson I want your charts to be
organized I want it to be very specific
and capturing what I want to see so that
way we can measure your progress going
forward and that way your your charts
will look uniform every day and then at
the end of the week you know we'll sit
down with a a weekly recap and uh
that'll be your first video everybody's
asking for your YouTube channel right
now there's nothing on it yet okay so um
hopefully this weekend we'll have
something where we sit down together
maybe a res resume call and we'll review
what you've done and how to go into next
week as well so it's kind of like over
the- shoulder approach to ICT grooming
and teaching his son mentoring him and
that way you get to be a part of that
experience
so but he says at 7:34 he says he wants
to see it take the swing low
then go long take out the relative equal
highs and then reminds me don't forget
they do an audio
check listen the audio is going to be
what the audio is going to be okay so
don't send me any
messages
um and for ass has to send it really
rudely in the comment section I never
will see a comment from you ever again
so I I make you invisible to the channel
so you think you're leaving messages and
posts on my channel but I'm never seeing
that again so if you're rude I got no
time for you so anyway Caleb thinks that
there's going to be a rally higher today
and that's not to say that's right or
wrong because I purposely have kept
myself away from looking at the charts
so I I'm sitting down with you right now
with the exception of just loading
trading View and opening up the
quadrants that or on the screen now the
four charts there's should be a a chart
in the upper leftand
corner right up here that's my 15minute
time frame chart every chart chart here
is naked that means I have absolutely
zero annotations on them and this is
what it's going to be like for you if
you have a job or if you're in
University or if you're
sleeping and you're coming back to the
marketplace to kind of
learn what has happened to train your
eye okay um for the folks that are here
that are just chomping at the bit they
watching me push buttons and enter
trades that's not
today the reason why is because I'm
teaching my son on how to start and
anybody else wants to listen this is the
proper way of doing it I've already
proved yesterday I can call it minute by
minute and tell you where it's going to
go if you didn't see that go back and
listen to it again but we're going to go
back into yesterday's price action and
show how if you can't be there live okay
say you can't watch me live either
because your boss is over your shoulder
constantly hovering over top of you and
you just don't want to risk losing your
job please don't do that don't lose your
job because you need that right now
until you get to the point where you can
replace it with your Investments and
then eventually double it and then have
two years of living salary and then you
can quit your job but until then don't
we can't talk about quitting jobs
so the upper left hand corner is my
15-minute time frame the lower leftand
corner is a FIV minute
chart and then the
upper right hand corner is a one minute
chart and for teaching purposes and and
to answer a few questions that came up
from my private mentorship students U
how to to hold on to a trade and or how
to look for um additional entries if you
miss the ideal one that would be on the
one minute chart so I'm going to give
you a little bit of of lesson on the
price
Continuum price delivery Continuum
Theory which is where we go through all
of the time frames and all the time
frames as I mentioned yesterday this is
it I'm not using anything higher than a
15-minute time frame because it's
intraday trading you don't need a daily
chart you don't need an hourly chart you
don't need a 30-minute chart you don't
need anything above a 15-minute time
frame because everybody everyone's clock
I don't care if you're from Switzerland
Uganda you know New Zealand by the way
did I did I read something correctly New
Zealand did you just pass a bill or a
law that says that they can arrest you
if you've not received the arm ticket
from Mr 19 and I can't say everything
exactly as I want but it seems like I
read something that said that New
Zealand uh lawmakers have passed a law
stating that they can arrest you if you
don't have the thing that should have
been introduced as a remedy for Mr
19 wow that's and then forcibly give it
to
you send me an email if you have any
information on that in title at New
Zealand and that way I I'll look for it
because I get too many emails I can't
read every
email but uh you wherever you're from
you're all going to have the same face
on a clock and everybody has a 7 o'clock
in the morning everyone has a 8:00 in
the morning and everybody has a 9
o'clock in the morning and as long as
that time is set to New York local time
every one of us are going to be on the
same page every single Market day we're
all going to be expecting the same thing
there's no way for me as the educator
here to have a out I don't have a way of
saying well this is what I really meant
and it did this and that it either works
or it doesn't right
yeah that's the litmus test it either
works or it doesn't it either holds up
it stands the test time or it
doesn't how can you prove that to
yourself to trust it that's the
important factor and this is the part
that most
Traders when they're developing
themselves they rush through this and
this is such an essential part that I
can't stress it enough and I've done it
a lot in lectures and teachings and all
of my mentor videos videos is focused on
slowing you down in the initial stages
because you're too quick to run out
there and try to make money and you
don't know what you're supposed to know
you don't even know what it is that you
should know and what you should avoid
doing and I'm I'm going to cover a
little bit of that today also how to
organize your charts and then I'm going
to show you what you need to be doing as
homework for the rest of the day because
we're only going to be here till around
o00 hopefully that's my plan at least
right
so that way you can go in and start
looking for very specific things that
your eye will jump to initially doesn't
mean that that's going to be your model
doesn't mean that's going to be your
entry technique that you live buy and
and make all your money from it just
means that that that's your first one
and it's an invitation for your
personal interest what you gravitate to
initially wherever you are in your
development as a Trader and what you've
been accustomed to seeing from my
content I I have to allow that part you
have to give yourself permission to have
that part as well because if I force you
into we're only going to use Breakers
we're only going to use order blocks
we're only going to use fair value gaps
it's going to alienate a large segment
of you and you will be left behind in
your development and that's not that's
not proper learning that's not um a
Hallmark or a signature of a good
teacher so I have to um I have to make
allowance
for you to bring your own personality to
this and you're going to see the
benefits of that because some for some
of you you've been trying to lock
yourself into one trick pony ICT
Concepts because either I've done a
video or I've done a trade or I've
recorded something or I said something
that really resonated with you and you
think because it sounded cool you know
you want to be tactical in your trading
instead of technically linked to your
personality um it is going to going to
be easier for you to see how you've held
yourself back by trying to force
yourself into a mode that nobody asked
you to
do the proper learning is for you to
come into this and say okay there's lots
of things in this candy store I can have
which one do I want to work with first
it doesn't mean it has to be my favorite
say but I have to start somewhere so I
leave that up to you and I it'll make
much more sense when we get into the
charts and in the technical aspects but
initially I want to give you the the
protocol that you go through every
single day when you sit down front the
charts whether you're doing it live or
if it's after the fact and you come home
from University come home from you know
school if you wake up and now you're
going to have time to do it um you
haven't made the changes in your life to
allow yourself to actually be in front
of the charts there live or you're
working let's just be real okay you may
not be able to do what we're doing right
here live you maybe you can't see me
doing live streams when I'm doing them
and having the benefit of of borrowing
my experience so what do you do with
that information how do you Journal how
do you log
what it is that you should be observing
and studying each day and then referring
back to that same information on an
individual day-by-day basis on the
weekend whether it be a Saturday or a
Sunday when I used to do Twitter spaces
I would talk about how this is our day
to kind of like ground oursel the
markets are not trading unless you trade
crypto and you're an idiot then you
think that that's going to be real money
in the future uh all those things put
aside that is the day where we rest we
don't try to trade we don't try to
formulate any kind of Hardline idea is
we go back and refer to what decisions
we made what actions we took and or
actions that we should have but didn't
and identify opportunities that we
weren't able to see then and then
encourage oursel through journaling
saying these are the things I did right
and these are new opportunities for me
to investigate and look into because
this was something I didn't have the
pleasure or the
the luxury of understanding or
identifying at the time you see what I
did
there I took something that every one of
us is going to have happen to us okay
there's a u opportunity for us to see
what we could have done better now if
you're on social media or you invite
other people usually people that are an
idiot they don't know how to trade
they're toxic they work at Jiffy Lube
they ain't got a raise and they're
probably on the verge of getting fired
you're going to listen to those
individuals give you Insight or opinions
in your comment section or they're going
to comment to you in a live chat via
someone else's live stream if you make
yourself available okay toxic people are
going to give you their opinion
unsolicited and they're idiots you don't
want to listen to an idiot The Village
Idiot mentality is in every segment in
every community of trading there's a
whole bunch of them there's a whole
tribe of them okay and you should not
care what anybody else thinks and if
someone takes the time to congratulate
you or say Well done you need to dismiss
that as well because you're not trying
to fuel ego you're not trying to allow
anyone to influence you negatively
either but that same element needs to
occur in your journaling which means you
have to filter out all of the toxicity
that you're invar going to reach into
and say I didn't do that right I was
stupid of me I should have saw that
soand so forming in the chart or I saw
it but I ignored it because I wanted to
be right and then you you feel compelled
to you think journaling is a beat up
session like you're you're you're giving
yourself an ass chilling you're not
trying to parent
yourself you're not trying to be dad
you're not trying to be mom overbearing
you know correcting you and punishing
you what you're trying to be is the best
coach for someone that you
love if you're trying to coach someone
that you genuinely love and you don't
want to break the spirit of and you want
to encourage that person you should love
yourself just as much as you love your
spouse or your children you have to have
some measure of resp respect for
yourself and tearing yourself a new ass
in a journal is not going to help you
get better you're not trying to play a
drill sergeant we mentioned this
yesterday as an analogy when you go
through boot camp they're tearing these
individuals down mentally and physically
and to the breaking point and then
they're shaping them up into a sword
okay you're going to be a marine you're
going to be a machine you're going to be
a soldier of fortune you're going to
you're going to go out there and rip
people's hearts out and eat it before
they die you they're trying to turn them
into an animal for war purposes that's
not what you're doing in a journal okay
you're not trying to mutate yourself
into some crazy Wolverine you're
literally coaching yourself and you're
encouraging yourself in any opportunity
where someone else could and yourself as
well could take something out of context
and say this is a perfect opportunity
for me to dump on myself and spend too
much time dwelling on a negative thought
or a negative reaction or an inability
to respond or react to an opportunity
and frame it and encapsulate it with
toxicity you don't want to do those
things in your Journal now for people
that are idiots they're going to say
well you're just sugarcoating it okay
and it's a waste of time journaling is a
waste of time I promise you these people
are not making money these people do not
have trade they're not consistent and
there're just absolutely miserable
cretens you need to keep all that junk
and filth out of your mind out of your
circle of influence that's why social
media is a
cancer this is my only mode of social
media I am not on Instagram I'm not
active on Twitter I am not doing
anything else I'm not in a Discord I'm
not running any kind of social media
where people can engage with me hey hey
how you doing it's not how that works my
private mentorship we have a space okay
we have a a space where we communicate
when I want to make something available
to them I talk to them that's it and
it's at my time it's it's my I don't
schedule anything it's just when you see
me I appear and that's
it outside of YouTube this very YouTube
channel there's no other ICT experience
and when I mentioned that I was never
going to do a paid mentorship I had
people leaving comments yesterday saying
you said you was never going to do
another mentorship right for
money I'm not asking for payments you're
not sending me any money here you're
watching because you want to watch or
you don't want to watch
so you have to manage a lot of people's
personalities if you allow them to have
any interaction with you so the best
thing you can do if you're really going
to make an attempt to do do it well is
what I told my son I allowed him to be
amongst my private mentorship students
he's he's among them right now but I've
also told him don't talk to any of them
and don't think that it's rude don't
think that you're trying to be pompous
or arrogant because these individuals
are going to try to warm up to you and I
have leakers in my in my groups they're
they're there okay so I told him don't
even listen to it they're going to blow
smoke up your ass they're going to try
to befriend you they're going to say
whatever they want or some of them might
take a shot and say hey look your dad's
not on the leaderboard of robins cup
he's a frog and what are you GNA say
about that well they won't have the
balls do that because they I'll get i'll
broom them out of the mentorship but the
point is this
don't allow toxic people or anyone to
fluff you up and you need to do the same
thing in your Journal it doesn't mean
you can't congratulate yourself and
cheerlead yourself when you do it right
just don't lay it on thick where you
think you're you know the be's needs if
you will meaning that you're really a
hot shot or or better than you really
are so you have to be very very balanced
but you're leaning heavily on coaching
encouraging yeah you may have not
observed
a specific function in price delivery
and it just happened to be probably the
biggest run of the day and you in your
infancy and your understanding you don't
see those things forming yet because you
haven't had an experience doing these
very things I'm going to show you today
and then studying it and looking at Old
price moves this is exactly what you
need and must do you will not be
consistent you will not be consistently
profitable you will not be comfortable
waiting for setups until you've done
this part now I'm forcing Caleb to do
this for a month because I want to see
that number one he can stick to the
process of doing it over and over again
I don't want to receive texts from him
saying what he thinks going to happen I
don't care about his opinion and it's
not appropriate for him to have that
understanding yet anyway he thinks he
thinks that he should he thinks that
that's going to be a measuring stick so
Dad can feel like okay my son's doing
his part no I'm going to know you're
doing your part by what I'm going to ask
outline today and then this weekend when
we see it together I'll know if you've
been doing it or not because you can't
make that up it's something you have to
journal it's something you have to go
through the process of studying the
charts you can't fake that you can't
watch 10 minutes of my video like my son
Cameron did and said yeah I was watching
your videos that and so and so and so
okay then I asked him something else I
said in the video and he had no idea
what I was talking about because I know
what he did he skimm through the video
listened for a couple buzzwords and he
fell into the same Click A lot of people
do on the internet they want to talk
with the language but they have no
understanding but they'll use Market
replay to teach my stuff it doesn't make
any sense you don't want to fake it you
want to be able to do it genuinely and
you want to have a genuine mentorship
experience well your part of this your
personal contribution in initial stages
is what this is all about today Okay so
yesterday I talked about the process of
not going above a 15-minute time frame
and I know some of you that have a
higher time frame affinity for like a
daily chart weekly chart whatnot U that
probably feels very uncomfortable
hearing that and I've said this before
um you you don't need all those time
frames now when you have a model that
you're risking money behind it's
important to refer to those things but
right now the only thing you're trying
to do is get familiar with reading price
action and getting over that fear of
missing moves and fear of not knowing
the fear of not knowing what's going to
happen next that's an it's an enormous
sense
of well it's like a barrier you feel
like you can't break through this
invisible force field of I wish I could
know what it's going to do next because
if I could just do that then I could be
profitable and I'm telling you that's
not true that's not
true but it has a necessary role in your
overall development and it needs to be
the first thing where is the market
likely to move directionally where is it
going to gravitate to and what time
usually will these moves form I
introduced the very generic form of that
yesterday it's not complicated and we're
going to go through the rules very very
specific and it's not a lot of them it's
not a whole lot of moving parts and I'm
going to clarify what I meant yesterday
prior to 7 o'cl in the morning and what
you're specifically looking for because
I got a question from one of my private
mentorship students and I I went back
and listen to I was like oh yeah I can
see how that causes confusion so I'm
going to I'm going to address that as
well I apologize if I confuse a little
bit of of some of the ref references to
time around that 7 o'clock in the
morning because it does sound like I say
um look for it before 7 am. and then
later on I say you don't want to look
before 7 a.m. so I'm going to clarify
what I really meant there and like I
said I'm not using a script I don't have
any kind of bullet points to go by I'm I
know what I want to talk about but
because I was watching price action live
uh my intention was on that as well as
as talking about what it is I wanted to
cover but yes there was a casual lesson
you this is a little bit more specific
so I have lots of charts available to me
in Hardware on screens that are off
right now in front of me I'm only
physically working with a laptop
computer most of you only have like a
tablet or a singular computer screen or
a laptop okay and you can do everything
from that
okay um I would counsel you not to try
to put your faith in using just a
smartphone okay um if there's something
you're observing and studying on the you
know on the move like you're at work and
you're getting a a bathroom break or if
you're on lunch break and you want to
look at the market through your phone I
don't have any qualms against that but
if you're going to try to make an
attempt to learn how to do this well and
consistently you need to have something
larger than your smartphone okay and I
don't mean the one phone like my son
Cody has he opens it up and unfolds and
it's a bigger screen that's still not
enough okay you have to have a a laptop
at minimum okay about 15 inches you know
minimum surface
space you may not have a trading view
subscription that allows you to do some
of the things that I'm going to refer to
today you do not need a sub one minute
time frame but I'm going to show you for
the people that do have that how to
integrate that into this okay I
mentioned it in passing yesterday so now
I'm going to give you the rules and how
it looks what it looks like rather in
the price runs from yesterday and how to
study today because I won't be with you
after the opening bell at 9:30 eastern
time the uh and also the reason why I
want to keep this short is because I
have not been doing a lot of talking and
yesterday you know a little over two
hours I I got a little horse yesterday
so I want to make sure I can preserve my
voice I don't want to come to you
tomorrow and say I can't talk I lost my
voice
as much as some of you guys really want
to hear hear me say I lost my voice so
I'd probably still sit out here and type
over the chart and without having to say
anything it still do the same thing but
people that don't know English they'll
send me hate mail saying I can't read
what you're saying why don't you have
subtitles because I'm not speaking it's
all being typed out so your your chart
if you have the
ability put all four charts up on the
screen like this your upper left is
15-minute time frame lower left is 5
minute upper right is 1 minute and if
you do have the ability to look at
anything less than 1 minute you can put
a 15c chart not that you need it but
you're going to find out today that it
is very very uh informative uh for
seeing what price is doing underneath
these one minute candlesticks that you
never really are aware of usually or
probably didn't even think of it okay
prior
to investigating and studying it because
there's a lot of things that you would
see on any other time frame occurring on
that 15-second chart and it's very
forgiving so is if you missed a move and
you missed an
entry the 15 second allows me to get
into a move if I missed my ideal fair
value Gap or if I have a limit order and
I have the the order sitting inside of a
level that I feel pretty confident that
it's going to trade to sometimes I've
had it and if you watch some of my U
recorded sessions before uh you can see
where I had had limit orders where it
goes up and touches the limit order but
doesn't go above it for the spread and
I've had one instance where it did
technically go above and the spread
should have afforded me the fill but it
did not fill me guess what that means
that's the real world that's what's
going to happen to you when you start
trading you're going to have limit
orders that don't get filled because
we're using such a degree of
precision that is a welcome struggle
that's a challenge that I enjoy having
and you're going to learn to have that
that mindset as well whereas right now
if you don't have a whole degree of
importance placed around Precision um
when you don't get your fill on a thing
it's you it's it's struggling point for
you to wrestle with why did that thing
take off without me I'm never going to
get another move this is the only move
I'm ever going to capture and I missed
it that's what you think that's what you
feel but me and my students that have
done these things for for years and
years now we're comfortable with ah well
I was trying to be so perfect and
precise about where I wanted to get in
at so I can have a very small stop
excuse me very very small stop loss it
didn't fill me and it started running
away so I didn't get my best fill we
don't get upset about that we're not
cussing at the screen oh you so and so
you didn't give me my
fill okay that is an expression you
don't be a dick for a tick um if you're
trying to be very very precise about
your fills and your entries um and you
don't give yourself flexibility and
permission to see it not fill
sometimes you're going to have a real
hard time in the early stages of order
placement and learning how to trade
entries because you're going to be
demanding Perfection and demanding
Perfection is an is an invitation for
frustration and regret and struggle and
it's going to make your learning process
a whole lot harder you know and longer
you don't want that
so a 15sec chart just I'm going to say
this and then we'll get into the
business of the 155 And1
The the
advantages of a 15-second chart is that
I can get into a price run that I missed
on a one minute
chart a f minute chart or a 15 minute uh
chart or any other time frame that I may
be looking at but for the rules that I'm
placing on you Caleb these are the only
time frames until I tell tell you
otherwise you're not looking at anything
else so don't send me a daily chart
don't send me an hourly chart don't even
ask me questions about any other time
frame ever until I introduce some other
reason for you to look at another time
frame because this this universe right
here okay this whole solar system of
price action is all you need you don't
need anything else you literally need
nothing else but this I mean truth be
told I said this before I don't even
need a chart I don't need a chart to
trade but to communicate what it is I
know that I'm not going to teach I use
charts to kind of bridge the gap so it's
a very effective
medium to prove that is it's your task
to to see what I'm saying is valid or
not so you all have this entire month to
to walk forward and see what it is I'm
talking about whether it works or not
you all will be able to see if it's
based on fluff or if it's really valid I
walked you through it yesterday live
over one minute chart every fluctuation
telling you what was going to
happen there's still huge opportunity
for you as the person in the driver's
seat of determining what it is you're
going to do with this information
because there's as you're going to see
today there's a lot of that in your
disposal you have a lot of input that
you're going to bring to to this and I'm
not asking you to send me an email
saying okay I watch this and this is
what I'm choosing to do like like I'm
going to sit down and say well that's a
good decision of what you're focus on
and I think this is a great I don't have
time to do that there's too many of you
that always try to reach out to me and I
physically don't have the time to
respond to everyone and that makes a lot
of you upset like I'm ignoring you
specifically no I'm trying I'm trying to
ignore all of you I've been trying to
have a a normal life okay and not have
ICT ISM all time but the 15sec since
just simply gives you more opportunities
to get into a move that's underway that
that that's really all I'm saying or to
dial down and reduce the risk and the
exposure of a stop-loss that would
otherwise probably require much more
handles or Pips if you're referring to
Forex it can be reduced very small
because you're looking at a 15-second
time frame now don't think for a second
that the 15 seconds just answers all the
equation and and and problems of larger
stop losses because if you don't know
how to reprice action and if you don't
know what that 155 and one's
doing just because you looked at a 15c
you're some of you are thinking oh he
just gave me the shortcut there there's
the shortcut all right ict's the plug
hey he just gave us the Seeker this is
the it's the golden ticket don't look at
anything else folks everything else is
distraction to red herring 15 seconds is
the answer and when I started talking
and trading off a 15sec chart I got
responses like that like oh bro like
you're the ghost like you're you you
you've you've tipped the hand you made
it it's easy for us now and then
invariably Weeks Later they're like I I
don't know I'm getting chopped up on
this 15sec truck right yeah because you
thought you were just going to jump to
the head of the line and no adversity
and you can't do that so son when you're
doing this I know right now he doesn't
have just so you know he doesn't have a
membership or plan through trading View
okay so that way here's what you maybe
don't know but my private mentorship
students have been monitoring this for a
little
while the uh we're probably going to go
to like 9:20 way I'm looking at good
time but all this is essential because
I'm going to answer a lot of questions
that you you're going to keep trying to
send to me and it's going to frustrate
me because I answering them in the
dialogue but my son doesn't have live
data okay and you're probably saying
what business should he have trying to
learn this stuff if he's not looking at
live data because I am talking to him
and I'm telling him up until recent
now I would tell
him by me either entering a
trade
live not Market replay not hindsight
stuff I would Point his attention to a
specific level like I was outlining it
yesterday for all of you watching and
thank you all for giving the thumbs up I
appreciate that last time I looked that
was 177,000 thumbs up so um it's like
10% 170,000 175,000 people watch the
video or live stream either replay or
whatever um it's still a little bit
lower number so you know I'm trying to
figure out what you were expecting
because it literally did exactly what I
said I was going to do
but he watches delayed data and for some
of you that can't afford trading view
stuff um they do a Black Friday sale and
last year I bought like six years of
trading View um membership at the level
I have which is the highest I use the
highest one and it was I think it was
like 600 bucks or something like that I
got like six years
of like everything that I use right now
which is the highest membership you
don't need the highest membership okay
but I'm not a representative for trading
view I'm not trying to invite you to
spend money there this is just the
medium that my community asked me if I
would use when mt4 became exposed as a
way for people to rig it okay and people
accused me of using a white label broker
um and I've already smashed that lie and
conspiracy it's destroyed um you watched
me do it yesterday okay I I know what
price is going to do I don't need a a
gimmick okay I don't have a a fake
brokerage firm that like Hano trade okay
oh yeah that's they make this person
look like he's made a lot of money and I
can go in and edit my trades and that
way you can get other people to go in
and sign up with them they can lose
their money and these types of Brokers
you know keep the money because they
they bebook you and that's the that's an
opinion that's not my opinion I've heard
other people say that so just for for
the people of Han trade that want to
send me some mail just know that I'll
I'll respond to that accordingly as well
I'm using an analogy that's been said
and banded about by other people I would
never trade with hando trade by the way
but the point is I'm using a medium that
the community introduced to me I didn't
even know anything about treading it so
don't think that this is an invitation
for me to make money There's No Business
arrangement with me uh trading view has
asked me in the past to have some kind
of partnership I have declined that I
still have the messages that's been
screenshot I can load that up on my
trading View and show it to you but for
privacy sake I'm not going to disclose
the person from Trading view but I've
have been honest I've never had an
affiliate with anyone so my opinion is
always Raw it's honest and sometimes
it's going to be
appearing disrespectful to them if it's
something I don't agree with if I say
there's something that there's a problem
with I don't like it like for instance
fxcm um I think they're a [__] broker
and they should have been shut down
entirely not just move out of the United
States but that's my opinion right
that's my personal experience with them
and I'm glad that the US can't deal with
them and they do you a favor by leaving
long story
short he has
a task of securing on black Friday a
trading view plan or membership where he
has real-time data so he has what he has
a few months because Black Friday is in
November so he is not going to need or
require live real-time data at all
because I'm I'm providing that
perspective I'm providing that okay I'm
coaching him along and then because he's
doing it with a a delayed data I am
pointing at real time data
and a setup that I'm expecting to take a
trade on drawing to a a pool of
liquidity whether it be relative equal
highs or relative equal lows and then he
has the benefit of not even having any
hindsight Advantage because he's now
what is it 15 20 I don't even know what
the delay is okay whatever the delay is
on trading view like if you don't have a
membership and you're looking at the
Futures chart I don't know what the time
limit or
deferred uh delivery of whatever the
real time price is right now for me or
anyone else has real time data versus
what trading view shows you like I don't
personally I don't know what that is but
Caleb doesn't
have any advantage he he doesn't have
any resource to tap into to see okay um
I want to impress that but I'm going to
cheat and I'm going to look at a a chart
that has real time dat I know it's going
to go there in the next couple minutes
so therefore I'm going to trade this or
I'm going to say it's going to do that
see he hasn't have any of
that so because of that he has a unique
perspective as me as his dad I have the
experience I can see it real time and
know what it's most likely going to do
more times then it's not and then I
enter a trade so he can see Dad doing it
right Dad calling it Dad executing on it
Dad managing a real stop loss managing
the stop loss throughout and then
watching the targets get hit or if it
reverses and takes me out with a stop
loss that prematurely exits the trade he
sees all that stuff you know as it's
going I update it constantly as going on
but then he has the ability to see the
trade forming with me telling him what
I'm doing with my account with real-time
data and it's a unique learning
experience because number one he has me
telling him what I'm doing real time but
then he can stalk the chart he can see
it as it's forming
knowing that I have placed skin in the
race with my execution I have face to
save I have money to lose I have profits
to make I have a real
management engagement with this idea
whereas he has just the luxury of I
don't have to be right or wrong I want
to wait and see when the chart presents
the things that I'm trying to learn and
it when
it's given to you like that it's like
the best of the best and for anybody
that has an issue with that you're an
idiot okay because he has all of the
advantages and none of the disadvantages
he can't lose money he's being primed to
look at it at the right time and it's
always the same times all the time
because the market is algorithmic so it
subconsciously trains him and he's
learning on the surface level what he
should be
feeling and how he manages expectations
over time
and until we get to Black Friday which
is uh in November he'll purchase at a
discount rate because trading view
always does a very very deep discount
and I don't recall how much it is
because I don't worry about price tags
but I bought
it at that time because I realized I was
spending full price by buying it in
January and I didn't know they were
doing black fry I don't usually worry
about Black Friday salees stuff like if
I want something I just buy it and I
don't really care to know what it costs
I don't shop around and try to get a
good deal I don't give a [__] if I want
something it's in if it's in front of me
I'm taking it home with me while trading
you I'm telling you if you're buying it
any other day except for Black Friday
you're wasting money so there you go and
they're probably going to be mad at me
because I said that but Caleb isn't
going to be spending any money on
trading view charting or real-time data
until that that month so the third
Friday of uh November and then he'll
have the ability to see things really
real time too but he has at that time he
has several months of learning how to
anticipate these things that he watched
me do like you did yesterday but he's
been watching me do that for a while and
my students have been watching me do
that for
years it doesn't it doesn't change
doesn't morph
so let's go into the business all right
so if you go over here and you look at
my 15-minute
chart I know that's a really long
monologue but uh
you have no idea how many questions I
get and how those types of segments of
my delivery removes a lot of headache
because people get mad at me like I'm
ignoring them and there are questions
and just it's not about you bro okay
you're not the only person I'm talking
to and the 15-minute time frame what
you're doing is you're looking at time
first and let me first cancel out the
confusion I probably cause some of you
so here's here's 7:00 in the morning
today
right you want to put a vertical line on
that it doesn't need to be a very bold
color anything like that you want to
just be able to annotate 7 o'
okay the things I mentioned yesterday
where I said you want to start at 7
o'clock in the morning that's true Caleb
you don't want to look at anything prior
to 7
o'clock because you are not versed in
anything with the London session I'm not
expanding your your your focus and time
beyond the scope of 7:00 in the morning
New York local time that's your that's
your punch in time okay that's the
earliest you can refer to in price if we
look at now pay attention to this okay
because this is going to answer the
confusion I ca yesterday without really
wanting to at 7 o'clock in the morning
that begins your hunt for relative equal
highs or relative equal
lows what I meant to say but I wasn't
very successful or articulate in the way
I said it is when I was referring to the
London session you do not this is the
part where I said this is really
important this is key takeaway
information do not look for your
relative equal highs or lows prior to 7
o'cl
Caleb that does not mean students that
have learned models from me in private
mentorship that they shouldn't be doing
an observation on these relative equal
highs because if you're looking at prior
to anything at 7 o'clock in the morning
what you're really doing is you're
referring to London sessions price data
and its profile not Market profile where
it has the volume you know horizontally
okay like it's something
special that that's not what I'm talking
about Market profile is is it making the
high or low of the day in London is it
setting up a consolidation to expansion
Trend day or is it going to be just a
trending day is it seeking destroy you
know all those profiles I taught they're
on my mentorship videos on this YouTube
channel fore free you don't need to pay
for them you don't need to go to
somebody else's five minute trainers and
I promise you they don't know how to use
them
either this reference point at 7 o'clock
if you know how to trade other price
action models or ideas that I taught and
you've been with me as a student for a
while and you do trade London setups as
a continuation or a potential reversal
for a London I'm sorry a New York
session Market reversal profile where
what that means is London session
between 2:00 and 5:00 in the morning
eastern time it's New York local time
always if that if that session time has
seen the market drop like we see here
okay if there if there's going to be a
New York session Market reversal profile
that means that they're most likely
going to see price trade back above and
overlap all the movement that was
started at 2 o'clock in the morning here
well if you're if you're a brand new
student of mine or if you've been
familiar with some of my videos but you
just feel confused you've never been
able to find a footing on how to start
where to begin this is what I'm I'm
teaching that to my son Kaleb cuz he's
in that same boat he has
familiarity you know he he's had TOP
Step account he's done all that stuff
but he hasn't seen consistency and he
doesn't really know what he's doing to
this this is what I'm going to do and
I'm only going to do this so what I'm
trying to do is I'm stripping it down to
the
Chrome and saying this is what you focus
on you start here and then when he shows
me by his progress that he understands
what I've given at this point here today
then I will expand his circle of focus
and his intentions on other factors of
time but you don't need anything
honestly you don't need anything extra
outside of today's stuff what I'm going
to teach
today so in
Clarity if you are a traitor that
understands day of the week and time of
day and London session trade and how it
can communicate a potential continuation
or reversal in New York session you
should have been fine with yesterday's
commentary but for the folks that don't
understand how to trade the London
session and how to in integrate that
with the New York session and how it
works together to make the daily range
that could have costed you a great deal
confusion and I I did I saw a lot of
folks in the comment section saying you
kind of like
you made two two statements that are
opposed to one another at one point you
say look for relative equal highs and
lows prior to 7 o'clock in the morning
and what I'm what I'm talking about is
for anyone that wants to look at the
London session and you understand daily
range and you understand all the other
things I've taught and you're more of an
advanced Trader using my Concepts you
can look for setups prior to 7 o'clock
in the morning but if you're brand new
don't even worry about that right now
you trust me you don't need anything
else prior to 7 o'clock in the morning
at
all so for clarity sake and simplicity
and to remove all the complications that
you probably thought was being thrown in
there at 7 o'clock in the morning what
you're doing is you're that's your
that's your beginning of the day you're
now starting to look for relative equal
highs and lows and you start on what
time frame first the 15-minute time
frame Okay so this starts the hunt for
at 7 o'cl did we create a relative equal
High yet no we just have One Singular
high do we have relative equal
lows don't look at this because it's
before 7 o'clock in the morning don't do
that don't even refer to it the rules
are very simple you're waiting to see
relative equal highs and relative equal
lows form after post 7: a.m. New York
local
time
now these two lows May be a factor for
the 5minute
chart so we're going to go to the
5minute Chart I'm going to expand
that all right so
now we do
potentially have if this starts to Rally
we don't have it yet this could
potentially become relative equal
lows now with that all you're doing is
you're making taking a mental note of it
you're not annotating your chart because
it's not there you never never never
lead your expectations with something
that has not actually formed in the
chart don't predict the setup you have
to wait for the setup you have to wait
for these signatures to form in price
you cannot anticipate them you don't
know what you're doing yet I can do
those types of things you've watched me
do that with calling inversion Fair B Gs
before they actually
formed and people insisted that it was
after the fact you annotations it's it's
not so the point is is that experience
will be given to you by exposure and
repetition that's the only way you glean
the experience you have to do these
things and they are monotonous they're
boring they feel like they're fruitless
in the beginning it feels like what am I
even doing this for and that's why I'm
talking to you this way because you're
going to want to not do this you might
you might do it tonight today or
tomorrow maybe the rest of this week but
something's going to happen next week
you're going to want to do something
differently because it's not making you
money you're not pushing a demo trade
and you're going to mess up you're not
going to learn you're not going to
progress you're not going to understand
yourself and what you're expecting to
see in price action because you're not
doing enough of it just like working out
everybody can join a gym but you're not
going to stick to the process of eating
well and exercising and sticking to that
sticking to that regimen and that
routine to see the results finally come
that you're G to have to wait for those
results are a deferred result everybody
wants to join a gym and lose 10 pounds
in the first two days and feel like I
didn't I made the right decision but you
have to submit yourself to the process
that these results that you're wanting
you're going to have to wait for them
but you're still going to have to do a
lot of work every single day working
towards those results that will come
later on that's the problem with
Millennial mindset and trading all of
you Millennials out there that are
trying to be
substantial or significant in this
community you're rushing to try to be
significant with no Talent no skill or
understanding and no
prowess and if you do what I'm teaching
you today you'll get that for real and
honestly and in that skill set no one
can take it away from you I won't be
able to talk down to you no one else
will be able to talk down to you because
you'll be able to carry yourself with a
with a skill set that no one can strip
away or diminish and that that's what
everybody should aspire to have but I'm
promising you you're not going to get it
quick five minute trainer videos five
minute mentorship guys they're not going
to get you there okay this is the way
you get there it's Blood Sweat and Tears
it's doing these very boring
observations so post 7 o'cl you're
scanning through looking for relative
equal highs and relative equal lows we
can't refer to that low because it's
before 7 o'clock in the morning so we go
down to a one minute chart I'm just
going to toggle through on on the chart
itself and here is the 7:00 delineation
and you're looking for relative equal
highs now the these have already
happened
okay so that's something that you could
have observed at the time at 7 o'clock
morning we weren't here obviously at 7
o'clock but it ran through there so what
did this
do okay think about what I was talking
about
yesterday there's two two different
characteristics in price delivery that
is a very very simple perception of what
price is done it took an area that's
smooth and made it Jagged so what
happened
here this was an engagement for
liquidity so what did it do it took buy
side after it took that buy side where
did it go directionally
lower so if it's done this type of work
then you have to go back through this
price leg from here down there see that
so what you're going to wait for is
something after 7 o'clock in the morning
to create relative equal
lows it could rally up and then these
relative equal lows could be the setup
for a run lower and if it goes below
these relative equal lows and I'm not
saying it's there yet because we're not
I'm not trying to push that on you today
but these are the things you're doing as
you're watching the chart you're
observing and referring so if these
become relative equal lows and it
rallies higher than this High here these
become relative equal lows and if it
wants to go below that how far can it
go refer over there that's not the same
thing as looking at relative equal lows
before 7 o'cl you're just looking for
liquidity for the sake of this simple
liquidity and you're referring to how
far can it go beyond relative equal
highs or relative equal lows you got to
look at Market structure outside this
parameter but initially all you're
looking for is to get a draw or a
short-term bias on to on a time frame
whether it be 155 or in this case one
minute chart where it affords you
movement you're watching to see how it
attacks or attracts to a relative equal
low or relative equal
High we already see that they've done
some work up here there was a sharp
frenzy okay there's blood in the water
up here we don't want to trade up into
that we don't want to we don't want to
trade into this because they've already
done a lot of things in
here so what we're doing is we want to
see it try to make an attempt to run
out some kind of a relative equal
low that's what you start with it
doesn't mean you're right it doesn't
mean it's going to pan out it's just
that's what you start with that's the
process who you work from the 15-minute
time frame look for relative equal highs
relative equal lows after 7:00 in the
morning even if you see them obviously
right before 7 o'clock or during the
London session ignore them all you're
trying to do is learn how to encapsulate
price action if this price all if say
all this price action here was over the
course of I don't know 15 minute time
frames or 30 minute time frames and this
was the close at 4 o'clock in the
afternoon New York time
what that would indicate is that this
was the daily range it created the Judas
swing here it dropped down and it came
off the uh low to close near the low of
the
Deb that's power
three you're going to discover that
every single time you sit down and you
look at the am session you're
essentially looking for that to form
you're looking for some fake
manipulation that creates all this
animation and it does the harmful work
of ing people and putting them out of a
trade that would have been profitable or
putting them in a Direction that's not
right and now they're trapped long in
this case and then they rake them across
the Cs and drop it
lower so you're looking for where the
retail or Street money Street money
Trader is going to be or less informed
Trader they're going to be looking for
support and resistance I'm not a support
and resistance Trader I don't teach my
students to trade support and resistance
we look for liquidity and inefficiencies
and when you go through the process of
looking for all of the relative equal
highs and relative equal lows on the
15minute the 5 minute and one minute
chart once you have either Pann through
and either identified what's available
on any one of those time frames or if
there is none that's
obvious then what you do is you go
through your charts and you annotate all
of the
inefficiencies and we're going to work
our way back up so right now we're on
the one minute chart so this would be
like this you see
this there is no volume imbalance in
here so you're going to start rate the
candle's low Drop it Down to the very
next candle after the big long down
close candle what kind of Candlestick
fair value Gap is this it has a down
close what did I teach you yesterday A
Down close fair value Gap is a
Cy stands for cells side in imbalance by
side inefficiency that means it offered
delivery on the
downside it's inefficient in any
movement back up inside that same range
that creates this one single pass
through until you get into this area
here so that's the furthest we weren't
back up into this range right there so
it's
inefficient by characteristic and
definition anything above this high up
to this candlestick's low right there
that candlestick's low all of that is
ineff efficient and is inviting the
opportunity for price to want to trade
up into it doesn't mean it's going to
happen right now doesn't mean it's going
to happen this session but that's the
characteristic then you have this one in
here we've already worked this one there
so there's a small little section
between that candle's low and that
candle's
High maybe you didn't see it maybe you
did if you didn't don't beat yourself up
about
it I've been doing it for a long time
but your jump to these little gaps and
these small little inefficiencies where
they where they may seem insignificant
to you right now like really why would
you even highlight that that's like
nothing meaning that from this candle's
high and that candle's low essentially
this is what's remaining in
that that little small section and I'm
telling you I've entered trades and
recorded myself doing it with real money
and shared it with you where I've used
levels just like that and place limit
orders just below it to get filled and
it never has any significant draw down
and just runs and takes off goes to my
limit order for
Target if if you're a student of mine
you're in private mentorship you've seen
some of those things lots of times
actually and then over here this
inefficiency let me fix this because I
always want to refer to the original
fair value got but noting what level of
inefficiency is still available that
means the small little section between
this candle's high and that candle's low
right
there so I always keep the original fair
value gaps the the levels because
they're key they can be used again
they're influential it's not so much
that I'm only looking for the uh
remaining unfilled portion I am aware of
seeing that because I'm I can see the
difference between the high of the fair
b g in this high of that candle so I'm
not trying to make any special disting
distinguishing uh note of it but in my
mind subconscious I know that that if
I'm going to go back to that it may go
back here just to tap the high of it and
that'll be it or if it goes above it and
comes back down then I could use this
candle's Wick in halfway point of it
that's how far I can retrace back down
into it and it becomes an inversion fair
value C when I have a Candlestick like
this okay when you're annotating your
inefficiencies we have this one here
there's no volume of balance up in this
segment to
here is that accurate
look
closely what's
wrong the low of it means to incorporate
that volume imbalance right there the
volume imbalance is the the separation
between one candlestick's body and the
very next subsequent Candlestick if the
bodies don't overlap or at least touch
there's a volume IM balance there I'm
I'm quite certain you're not going to
see any information about that unless
someone else wrote a book about my
Concepts and this is this is new stuff
okay I introduced it to the community
and it is very very influential in terms
of reading price action in terms of
precision elements you have to
incorporate that that is your your fair
value Gap why because the Wicks are not
the true narrative that's where the
damage can be done it's like your child
that colors with a crayon in a coloring
book they color sometimes outside the
lines you know that they messed that up
but you're not going to sit down and say
look here look here Billy I don't know
how many times I got to give you this
lesson but you will not be eating dinner
tonight because you colored outside that
picture again sure sure sure you'll do a
better job next time but right now it's
no dinner you're not going to treat your
son like that if you do you need to get
stomped but
if you see your child do that and it
colors outside the line what do you do
oh he he colored a picture for Dad or
Mom and you put it on your refrigerator
or you take it to work and you hang it
in your
cubicle because you're proud of them
right because you know that that's just
an aition it's just something that just
happened and it's not a big deal well
that's how I look at
Wicks yes the algorithm repriced up into
there a little bit that's fine where's
the body right
there so volume volume imbalances here
this this is the stuff you're supposed
to be writing down folks if you're just
listening and eating potato
chips you're completely oblivious to
what's being introduced to you the
volume
imbalance tells you to ignore any of the
wick this Wick will not be all that
influential whereas if you were without
a volume IM balance in here let me zoom
in because I really want to see what I'm
talking about because I'm not sure if
you can see it well some of you guys are
trying to learn this on your
smartphone and got students in prison
that are studying and they're like man I
wish he could zoom in this brother just
read my
mind how you like that so that's the
volume imbalance right there okay so if
you have a fair value Gap or an
imbalance and it has a volume balance in
it any Wick inside the fair value Gap
just completely nullify any intention on
that now find that in your textbooks
find that in your uh ripoff ICT
mentorship F minute trainer guys they're
not going to tell you that Insight
because they didn't make it so the
volume IM balance right there that tells
you if you have that in any Wick in
there just completely disregard
it only if it's a wick that's that's
below the consequent encroachment which
is the halfway point here so any weak
Wick that reaches up to that level or
less ignore any of those Wicks you have
to take it to the body of the candle
okay so that gives you the true
real fair value gap or in this case a Cy
sell side and balance buy side and
efficiency all right so that's the
business there and extending out in time
and the market goes right up to that
high and then folds and creates what
right here what is
this that's that fair value gap between
this low and this candle's high and you
see it trade right up into consequent
encouragement plus a little bit more why
why because the algorithm is affording
anyone that uses this information that
uses this level as a entry point they
have to offer them the
spread right or they won't get their
fill and that's why you get this little
bump right above right there but you're
going to be told that that's buying
pressure the buying pressure just
happens to stop at levels of precision
that fit inside the narrative that I've
proven to you over and over and over
again with live price action before it
happens folks as we go through this that
onion okay that sits in this the the
skull of yours that you think is a brain
I'm going to be peeling back those
layers and getting rid of all that
crusty [__] okay we're going to get down
to the sweet kernel in the middle and
you're going to find out that there
really is an algorithm and it really is
absolutely 100% manipulated and
controlled and scripted until they
manually intervene and then it seems
like the markets are random the markets
are controlled by buying and selling
pressure wrong absolutely not so you
have have all of these levels here and
I'm going to leave it up to you to have
a color scheme that you like okay
meaning that you're going to come up
with the scheme because because people
are always like can you show us the
colors that you use for your
candlesticks I get nervous when I see
stuff like that because I know
invariably what that means is there's
somebody that wants to start putting
their charts out like
mine and they want to put my videos and
clips and whatever on their Instagram or
their other social media whatever and
pretend that they did these trades when
I'm recording myself do them and then
they can't show something after the fact
or explain it in hindsight because now
they know that the mo move happened they
can't have their charts look like mine
because they won't match the color so it
it it creates a problem for them and
they're fraud
so I I don't sit down and try to show
you the actual Hue or color of of here u
in in fact this these charts May
actually become a different color in the
back background may change also because
it's starting to bother my eyes and even
with the blue filters that have on it
it's it's still it's a little
irritating but you want to go through
the charts and you want to highlight
these things
and since we have
done this work up here where we had
relative equal highs here in here but
did I teach you
yesterday how do you know it's a high
probability relative equal High
when the right side that is identified
as a
potential turning point for a quote
unquote potential relative equal High
the right one is going to be slightly
lower than the one on the
left we have that here we don't even
need to see this ahead of time we just
need to see okay it ran that and you
might you might identify it after it
does that run there and then you start
seeing it break down see
that at the turning points or potential
turning points like this okay this is
where and I'm going to refer to this in
my book with this lecture here I've
taught and introduced inversion fair
value gaps on Twitter spaces last year
okay all of my PD arrays have an
inversion aspect to them every single
one of them every single one of them can
reverse their role every single one of
them but it's not easy for you and it's
not easy for people that want to try to
teach my stuff for money when you're
actually getting it right from the
source here for free um it's not easy
for them to be able to teach that
because I've never went into great
detail like I will in the books so that
way it kind of like Bridges the Gap and
then you'll see everybody start teaching
it then but this is a note that's real
important for you
okay inversion fair value gaps the
highest form of precision the ones that
are really really trustworthy the ones
that have the highest degree of working
in your favor depends on your
understanding of what I taught you
yesterday and I'm what I'm building on
here whereas we have an area that's
smooth after 7 o'clock so the 7 o'clock
in the morning starts the am session so
now you start hunting on the 15 minute
time frame the 5 minute time frame and
the one minute time frame you're hunting
relativ equal highs and lows to form
after 7:00 well we have that here you
may not have had the experience to
anticipate this run up that's fine you
don't need it you don't need it remember
when I first taught
Breakers I thought that on baby Pips
back in 201
11 I think it was
2011 um if it wasn't it was
2012 the
uh the idea of waiting for a stop
run and then wait for the market to come
back down in to the range prior to all
that run up and then wait for the
bearish breaker in this case the bearish
breaker is this candle and this candle
the most sensitivity is going to come
inside of the most lowest down Clos
candle prior to the run up because you
have a high a low and then you have the
stop hunt and then the
reversal well that's trading with a
breaker inversion fair value gaps if you
have a gap inside the range that creates
the bearish breaker as we have here now
remember what I told you a down closed
candle that is a fair value Gap is a
CBI a up closed candle right here this
is the opposite which is a bissy b i SII
buy side imbalance sell side
inefficiency now this is going to be a
huge step in understanding narrative and
understanding directional bias and also
reversal patterns this fair value Gap
here if you don't understand what you're
looking for and you don't have the
element of time Dave and you trade back
down
into this fair value Gap you might be
led into thinking well wow you know this
is an opportunity for me to take one of
those IC fair value Gap buys and go
long and then it's to your detriment
that it reverses and collapses on
you understanding that it's 7 o' post 7
o'cl we have relative equal highs it
rallies after remember the new week
opening Gap I talked about yesterday
you're going to discover Caleb that your
model is going to be gravitating towards
those new week opening gaps that's your
model you're going to be trading in that
direction but before we get to that you
have to be able to look at small small
small fluctuations around segments of
time time that have we have a repeating
phenomenon that they all look very
similar to one another it's a fractal
okay
um but the fractal element is only
repeating and verifiable on the time
frames I'm teaching you to focus on
right now we're not going anything
higher than the 15-minute time frame but
this bid and balance cell sign
efficiency that fair value Gap is going
to have a roll reversal
where everyone else that thinks they
understand it because they've been
introduced to it
lightly
that is an inversion fair value
Gap so the market creates this fair
value Gap after this run here you don't
want to use that as a Vine we're so
elongated and stretched out from London
and it's past 7 o' in the morning
so now we're in an AM session am session
characteristic is always first and
foremost characteristic is retrade back
into the London range the London range
is whatever the highest high and the
lowest low was between 2 o'clock in the
morning and 5 o'clock in the morning
Eastern Standard Time now I'm going to
slow things down
here because already I already know some
of your your heads are spinning you're
like dude you said this is going to be
easy you're not complicated what I just
said is not
complicated you have to look at these
specific times of the
day so if we're anticipating a rally up
because of these relative equal highs
and it's after 7 o'clock in the morning
and it creates this type of reversal
scenario where it breaks down your eye
should go rate to are we looking for
relative equal highs or relative equal
lows or are we looking for
inefficiencies you have to go with what
the chart's given you you can only trade
with the premise of relative equal lows
or relative equal highs if it's in price
action if it's not there you can't you
can't refer to it so if there's nothing
else in price because we want below
these relative equal lows there what's
left now at this price point right here
if there were not anything else on the
chart yet over here this is the only
chart Candlestick at the time you're
watching it what where does your eye go
well you'll naturally go to
this but my eye jumps to the stop hunt
here
and the breaker and from the breaker to
the High where the stops were taken is
there a fair value gy if there is I'm
going to navigate away from the breaker
and I want to have that premium level
right there I want that that's the one I
want everybody else might be trading
down here and they might get a fill
right there and they won't be
comfortable trading into this High here
or right
there see where it's stopping it's not
random the market breaks down that Q
working off of that inversion Fair Val
you got that drop and it creates this
Gap right there that right
there is The Sweet
Spot when you're bearish and you have
everything behind you that's in Play
It's Your optimal trade entry it's your
model
20122 it's right there and then this
becomes a selling point
and now what do you have at this point
you have this low and this low what time
of day is that 8:00 so the price is
rallying up against the underlying
expected expected move or directional
bias because this move here has caused a
potential
reversal so now you have relative equal
lows here but how far can it go you have
to refer to the range prior to that
reversal pattern that form Med after
relative equal highs have been taken
so let me slow you down because you're
getting a little panicked I'm sure this
is too much information my head spending
ICT all you're doing is you're looking
for areas where they can stop people out
and go the other direction that's
essentially all you're doing and you're
looking for little periods of price
action where obvious highs can be
targeted obvious lows can be targeted
for liquidity purposes and in between
them or if there's nothing new to work
off of then you focus on all of the fair
value gaps the
inefficiencies that means things that
we've been coloring here with the
rectangles okay your eye will jump to
them with experience you'll see them
more the more you do this and because of
that experience Factor you'll learn to
fill throughout some of them because
they've already been used several times
it doesn't mean that they won't be used
again it just means that the ones that
are unfilled or left in a state of
imbalance like this portion of this gray
box here from this candlestick's high to
that candlestick's low there's a little
bit of in efficiency and graphically it
looks like this that's the that's the
remaining portion that's inefficient
that little segment up there it doesn't
mean it need it can or needs to fill it
right now it's just that's the part that
my eye goes to but you still want to
have the low the midpoint which
consequent Cor and the high you want to
have those levels all the time because
they will refer to them if the price is
trading anywhere around this range here
the rest of the day watch and see how it
uses it it will use it again so if you
want to talk about support and
resistance these inefficiencies are the
real support and resistance in price
action you'll see them kiss them turn on
a dime go right to the level stop turn
around the bodies of them stop like it's
it's so precise it goes without question
it's laughable for anyone to say there
isn't an algorithm these price engines
what are they referring to think about
it what are they referring to they have
if it's an algorithm it has to refer to
something it's happened in the past so
what I've done is I've created a
language where you're either going to be
reaching for old highs for the express
purposes of taking out or engaging that
liquidity that would be resting above it
in the form of buy stops or going below
a a low or equal lows for the express
purposes of going down to engage the
cell side or cell
stops outside of that what are we left
with anything that's inefficient in
terms of price action so if we have a
inversion fair value Gap here after
these relative equal highs have been
traded through and it starts to break
down no Panic don't worry about
panicking there's no reason to do
that go into this price run here that's
your that's your breaker where it run
runs up and tags all the stops gets
people stopped out if they were short
they're not allowed to be profitable or
trick them into a long trade and then
when they start raking them across the
colds going lower they're
unprofitable if that's the case your eye
goes into this price run is there a fair
value Gap there if there is extend it
forward and then wait for it to trade up
there don't sell yourself short and only
look for the return to the breaker or
the low point because it's going to
trade R back back up into that and if
you go back and look at your examples
maybe you've taken trades whether it be
live demo whatever or maybe you've done
some annotations and and chart work and
journaling and you were focusing on
studying on the breaker go back and see
if this signature doesn't appear in some
of them and maybe some of the things
that you would have taken as a trade
there or maybe you've taken and got
stopped out this was the factor that you
didn't see happening and notice that
this is the only buy side and balance
sside efficiency and once you have a
valid return here in itself SS off what
you should be focusing on is all of the
cbies all of the cbies until the
narrative is likely to changed bullish
your focus goes to only looking for sell
side imbalances that means a down closed
candle that has a segment with the
previous candle's low and the subsequent
candle after it is has a high that
doesn't connect and the only bridge
between those two points is the down
close candle in between that's your fair
value Gap and it's specifically a cell
sign balance byy sign
efficiency and by having that what that
does it it removes the ambiguity and it
gives you a very specific process of
saying okay I'm only focusing on these
specific fair value gapes I get that
question a lot even with PRI mentorship
students how did I pick that one why did
I pick that one why didn't I pick this
one over here well that that comes with
experience and it may seem like a cop
out to some of you that do this straight
ass hats and you don't really want to
take the the honest truth there's some
things that you're going to have to get
with experience and I don't make any
bones about it I don't sugarcoat it and
you're going to pick it up because
you've been doing it long enough but to
get that experience that's required to
do a lot of things that you're asking
for answers you got to do what I'm
showing you here and you can do it after
the fact you can go back and look at it
and yes you have the added benefit of
hindsight don't don't discourage
yourself in that because anything you
learn everything surgeon that ever did a
surgery on you they studied in a book
they watched other surgeons do it first
then they worked on a cadabra it's a
dead body okay where if they cut some
artery or something they make a mistake
the person's not going to sue them for
malpractice or die on the on the table
they're already dead so they're demo
trading with a with a corpse okay or
their demo surgery with a corpse but
when you start looking for
it there are there's specific fair value
gaps Caleb that I want you to focus on
okay the very first fair value Gap prior
to a stop run always always always have
that one noted and that's why it's
colored red here or pink if you want to
call it that because this is a change in
a
direction and what this is doing is
acting just like an order Block it's
just change in the state of
delivery oh so I'm incorporating
narrative where the market goes up after
7 o'clock stop hunt change breaks lower
comes right back up into inefficiency
but to a very specific fair value Gap
it's the first one prior to a stop
hunt okay there's going to be lots of
times where this doesn't form and that's
okay if it doesn't form what do you do
throw everything out the window and
start trading supply and demand and
Elliot wave because nothing's going to
work for
you I had to toss that in there I had to
toss that in here because some of you
are falling asleep you're like okay dude
he's throwning on I I don't know what's
going on this fair value got okay if
it's not there then you use the breaker
it's very simple it's the last down
closed candle okay but your stop needs
to be above the highest high of the
consecutive down closed candles because
this is all the bearish breaker both of
these candles here so your stop has to
be above that okay how much two two
ticks maybe one tick main times I've use
this the high because if it's really
good it won't it really won't like to go
back up into the full range of that um
so using the very high of that in in my
case it would be fine not not if you
have this Gap here inside the leg that
has the stop hunt because if you have
that then you you could potentially see
a whole return back up into this and
maybe a little Mohawk a little a little
tiny little Spike above outside with the
wick of the candle but the body be
inside or below that Gap so that's all
part of stop management so I talk to in
there no extra
charge but that changes the state of
delivery meaning that we went up to stop
out and then this is where everything
algor algorithmically changes now we're
going to start going lower it's going to
seek sells side liquidity it's going to
reach for cell side it's going to expand
lower so you want to key off of and look
for turning points or what will be
future entry points for you Caleb for
trades the key off of these sell sign
balances buy side deficiencies
every single Cy every single short-term
high so why do you want a short-term
High noted even if it's a singular one
because there's there's stops above that
okay we already have a relative equal
High here that formed and it caused a
potential reversal that moves lower that
seeks liquidity we had relative equal
lows here it traded down through that
and then we have all this business in
here
we swept below that here actually it's
kind of sloppy isn't it it's 940 well
whatever you know you're not paying for
it I'm giving you something extra I want
it to be done sooner my wife's probably
thinking every time he says he's going
to be this much time it's invariably
going to happen if I say it's going to
be a little one it's going to be a long
one but I really can't do a two-hour one
today so um we'll probably end up doing
a two- hour
one this guy's bipolar and he says one
thing in the next minute he changes his
mind it's that's what like being in my
mind it's a beautiful place so every
cell side in Balance every cell side in
Balance don't see anyone of in here yeah
notice how this one here what is this
one what's this what's this fair value
got by classification and name what
would you call that
one it's a b side and balance efficiency
okay I'm not looking at that one I won't
highlight that one I won't extend it for
because it's it's against it's against
the underlying Direction and the state
of delivery which is it wants to go
lower so if it wants to go lower I'm not
interested in this unless it shows me
that it wants to reverse and it's done
something very violent down here like it
it could do it here I'm not saying it
will but if it did something violent and
started the reverse then I would draw my
attention to this one because then I can
act on that as an inversion fair value
Gap because it would reverse its role
but right now when the narrative is in
in motion every cell side and balance bu
side and efficiency I'm referring to I'm
not always drawing them out on the chart
because as you'll see
it's it can be rather
uh busy on your charts and I like to
keep things naked but not
afraid you see it trading up into the
consequent encouragement of that one so
when when you're trading or not sorry
when you're observing price action
you're spending your time not pushing a
button trying to trade you're not trying
to convince people in in live chats in
their chat window you're not trying to
tell influencers what you think's going
to happen because you're going to wait
for a high five like yeah bro or yeah
sister you know none of that stuff
you're you're in your own little bubble
every single day and you're looking for
these things to unfold now
if you recall I mentioned yesterday
let's do that right Michael come
on at 8 o'clock is the same thing
there's another point of confusion I
want to
clarify I talked about the first 30
minutes after 7 o'clock and after 8 o00
and after 9 o'clock that is
your pression range okay it
is 30 minutes of you
expecting something
opposite so in other words if you see
relative equal
highs what would you expect after
8:00 you would expect a low or a price
run lower what is that by definition
opposing directional run that's against
where you think it's directly going to
go that's a Judah swing that's
manipulation it's something that goes
against the grain of
what you're expect not what everybody
else on the internet's doing but what
you're expecting okay um if you look
around yesterday everybody's titles on
YouTube had stock market crash and I was
in here telling you it's going to go
up was that
random no because everybody had the same
idea and I sat down with you explained
to you this is what it's going to do and
we wait for it to present itself and
then we put in motion a plan of where
the next foothold or the next grab point
like rock climbing okay a rock climber
looks at the surface of the of the cliff
that it's trying to climb and he looks
or she looks and tries to map out a
pathway okay I am not going to just
reach up for this grab Point here with
my hand and pull myself up a little bit
and then guess where the next handhole
is going to be they try to map out
because they don't want to get to a
point climbing up using all that energy
and then find out they're really not in
a position to grab on to something
that's more efficient for the client to
go back up well in this case we have a
descent even though they were not trying
to trade relative equal highs and lows
prior to 7 o'clock in the morning if
this does this and it starts to move
lower you have to incorporate the range
what range is that the low that was
formed prior to it crossing the
threshold of 7 o'clock in the morning so
we have all this run here so every
single one of these inefficiencies over
here
here here here even though it's been
used already you extend them in time and
they will be places for you to
anticipate price going up to and pushing
into it and then resisting and going
lower as it works and gravitates to that
low right there as I was hinting at
earlier but the range okay the the
pression or pre-market range after the
top of the hour whether it be 7 o'clock
8:00 or
9:00 these are your three Windows of
opportunity so right away we can study
and see okay there was really nothing in
here except for these
two right here these little small little
ones so what did it do it rallied up
where it go to some random level nobody
could have known that it was going to go
to that level but now you do you have a
stop hunt the market broke down so this
is a shift in Market structure okay and
this is a optimal trade entry even if
you didn't have all the stuff I'm
teaching you here and amplifying it you
already know this this was the flagship
pattern of my channel since 12 uh 2012
the optimal trade entry a shift in
Market structure measure your high to
your low 60 to
72%
retracement 62 to 72% retracement level
and
the 70.5 level
see this is this is one of those moments
where I would hit control and tap M and
I would have to go back and listen to
the audio audio and edit and fix that
part but it's live so I have to have to
keep going my OCD is is tapping me on
the shoulder but this is still a pattern
that you would have traded anyway with
using the rudimentary level uh lessons
that I taught over a decade ago for free
on this YouTube channel but now you're
learning the signatures that present a
greater degree of precision and managing
your expectations in the
narrative how are you going to
incorporate all these things and Trust
holding onto a
trade so now we're going to go
into we have a
uh hang on I got distracted
here I have headphones on so when I was
listening to a phone that's on do not
disturb I was still getting a um a flash
on the screen and I looked that I made a
mistake to looking at I break my
concentration but the each hour at 7
o'clock in this case 8 o00 and at 9 o'
what you're doing is you're starting the
whole process all over again you're
waiting for relative equal highs to form
or identifying relative equal lows at
8:00 you can look prior to 8:00 you just
can't look prior to 7:00 relative equal
your
because you're trying to work inside the
range of the morning session okay the
morning session is essentially 7 o'clock
till 11 o'clock in the morning
technically until noon but 11 o'clock
for me I like to like to be done by then
frankly I like to be done by 10:15 10:30
you know if I can get something on and
and be paid out I'm done I don't I don't
need to do anything else you may not
like that you might want to be for the
whole day not me uh I don't want want to
be in front of the charts I don't like
to be chained in front of the charts but
once you have a turn in a direction like
this and the Market's likely to draw
lower you'll see that by focusing on
only one side of the marketplace with
the inefficiencies as we have here it's
moving lower so every cby is extended to
the right okay if you remember on
Twitter I would tell you note a specific
fair value guy and I'd say extend it to
the right that that this that's me doing
this here okay
and you know whenever you see the market
trade you know through them a little bit
you'll see a troll or someone that has
no idea what the hell's going on they'll
say oh yeah he thought it was going to
sell that's not that's not what we're
doing here you're you're going to wait
for it to cover over top of it and then
break back down through it and then it
will act as what you expect it to do
many of you when you see me talk about
inefficiencies fair value Gap cies
busies all that business um you
anticipate that oh it's a matter of just
going up once it gets into here all you
got to do is sell short right
there that's not it folks you you have
to anticipate a measure of manipulation
what was the price doing here I told you
it was getting kind of sloppy we had
this inefficiency yeah but what else is
there what else is there you have this
energetic drop that created that Cy and
there's going to be what trail there for
anyone that's short they're going to put
their stop loss right there well that
efficiently
done been removed with this bump here
back into an old
Cy and then you have a market break down
look at the work around the halfway
point which is consequent
encroachment the market drops opens
again here breaks lower we have an
inefficiency the bodies are telling you
yes this is going to go lower why
because it stopped right there see that
the Wicks are allowed to do what a
little bit of damage is it going to
random locations no it just bumps the
bottom of that Cy over
there right there and then Works
lower
now at 9:00 the same thing you can look
at any relative equal high or low prior
to 8:00 up to 7
o' if you're going to be trading with
long longer term price runs for the
folks that are asking me how do you hold
on for longer trades in that case you're
going to have to look at the previous
day's range and what is the previous
day's low or if it's if it's going
higher what's the previous day's high
and that's your next logical level to to
reach for but I don't want to give Caleb
anything beyond the scope of what I
already covered because it's giving him
way too many things to worry about and
if you're brand new you're probably
feeling that too but in short what
you're doing is is at 7:00 that starts
the hunt for relative equal highs or
lows if you see a disruption like we
were talking about yesterday where it's
Jagged you see how it's nice and
Jagged that's that's indicating it's
probably going to go the opposite
direction especially if you have all
these other supporting factors where
that would have been a breaker this is
obviously a high probability inversion
fair value Gap and it hits it here
respects consequent encouragement breaks
down and then we have another return in
here here's optimal Trend entry as well
and everything is your your mindset is
okay I'm looking for lower I'm looking
for lower I'm looking for lower and it
breaks lower and then you highlight
every single time it creates an
inefficiency where it's a big candle
that doesn't have any overlapping with
the candle prior to it form or the
candle after it so it creates that
inefficiency that
imbalance and then when we have these
long protracted consolidations like that
it's really better for you to sit still
let them do whatever they're going to do
why what do we have there what did I say
yesterday we have relative equal highs
and we have relative equal lows you're
you're going to be playing the Breakout
game and I'm not a breakout artist I'm
not trying to guess I want to see what
the Market's going to do so by this run
up it can trade into any one of these
fair value gaps in
here if does and does it fall out of bed
yep so what I would require and you've
heard me say well not technically you
heard me um you'll see in Old tweets
where I'll say we want to see this fair
value Gap act as an inversion fair value
Gap well that means it it ran above it
it's got to go below it and then do this
right there that function of
redelivering to it then a deeper
protraction
lower to upset any liquidity that would
be resting below here as much as and to
the degree of reaching down into that
low over there because that's the low in
London you see that
so when you have your charts Caleb um
what I'm I'm only interested in seeing
anything before 7 o'clock if the range
of the morning session trades to the
London session low or the London session
High other than that I don't want to see
anything on your charts Beyond
this okay that's it so all your charts
are going to have about uh six o'clock
or so just to get a little taste of what
London was doing and then everything
else in your charts need to be very very
simple but I want 9:00 delineated 8:00
delineated and 7:00 delated and any
formation of relative equal highs or
lows I want you annotate them okay and
the way I want you to annotate them is
don't use this don't do
this okay I want you to
draw hold down shift as you drag it over
it'll keep it
straight and I want you to annotate it
like
that and choose whatever color you want
it doesn't matter don't just cuz Dad's
using this color I'm just stick to this
card right now cuz it's saving me some
time may not feel like it because
I'm taking more time than some of you
guys are wanting me to spend doing
it all right and that's the relative
equal lows and the relative equal highs
I said yesterday when you have both of
them you wait you wait for them to take
one side out what does it do it runs
higher so what's it going to attack now
that one and it runs down below it okay
so as it is right now if there was any
trade taken or no trade taken at all you
would do nothing because it's already
done a whole lot of movement and it's
back in an area where I wouldn't want to
see it as a trade back in this Cy again
because we've already done once twice
overlapped it respected it and now we're
back inside of it again that is low
probability and it could fall out of bed
and crash a, points it still wouldn't be
a trade I took cuz it's against the
rules of me wanting to use it it's it's
been overlapped and worked multiple
times and it's done
enough so your day would be complete
here and you would
capture everything just like this and
then you would annotate it like this
would be U an area where you could
highlight or type out any observations
or what you felt about this movement
here in this little area here you would
in text so you would just take the text
and say something like this like
um okay and just simple little
statements like this and what you're
you're doing is is you're highlighting
your
focus here and
here and
here and up here in this segment you can
do something like um I i' like how it
reacted off that inversion fair value
guy so what you're doing is your cherry
picking points of reference for your
journal and when you see the chart
again the next day like tomorrow when
you sit down you look at Price action
you refer to what it did
yesterday and these levels will be
subconsciously retained as significant
and it'll reinforce it subconsciously as
a memory worth holding on to and then
when the weekend comes and you go back
through your journal and your charts and
you have these little
annotations what that will do is you'll
read this comment says I like the
obvious return of
price and don't have any typos like
this that
still don't right I like the obvious
return of price that the
[Music]
cities there we
go getting old folks getting old one of
those Biden moments
what did you say you Republican son
[__] here's one I'm probably going to
vote this year I'm probably going to
vote for the first time and you should
vote too but I'm not going to say who
I'm voting for because then you
probably be really hating me but I'll
tell you any haris
so oh man I'm such a troublemaker so you
annotate your charts that way you have
something that when you refer to on the
weekend it is a positive reference you
do nothing negative you say nothing
negative you criticize nothing
negatively and you draw out the things
that are useful information okay and
when you do that and you look at it on
the on the weekend as a reflection
you're never looking at things through
the lens of regret you notice that and
what does that do it manages your fear
and
greed it manages regret if you missed a
move you've fed what you're focusing on
so when you look at an Old Chart you're
not looking at man I could have went
short here or I could have went short
here and held for all this mve down here
that's what everybody does wrong and I
tortured myself as a 20-year-old doing
that I literally whooped my ass every
day in a journal telling myself
everything I did wrong and then wondered
why it took six years for me to get it
figured out that I was doing this to
myself like I was doing all those things
holding myself back but I thought well
I'm going to be hard on myself because
that's that's what I need to do and that
that was actually detrimental to my
development and my understanding about
how I see things in price and how I'm
going to interact and how I'm going to
treat myself after the fact whether I
took a trade or didn't take a trade
whether I had a win I had a loss I had a
win then lost money like all those
things you have no idea what you're
going to do when you go through those
experiences and until you develop skill
sets to manage your emotions and your
expectations and you do that with your
journal with role-based
ideas okay until you appreciate the
level of responsibility that this puts
on you you won't understand it it's easy
to say well I'm going to trade I'm just
going to go and start pushing
buttons well okay you people go to the
casinos all the time and they go home
pissed off they took too much money and
they didn't they didn't leave or they
should have stayed home because they
wasted their money and you can waste
your money looking at these candlesticks
and telling yourself a story that ain't
there so you have to have an expectation
on price at a time of day in this case
you have three specific times of the
day and the first 30 minutes at 7
o'clock after 8:00 and after 9:00 if
there is relative equal highs or
relative equal
lows below the marketplace then you want
to see a move the first 30 minutes go in
the opposite direction of
if there's relative equal highs that
form after 7:00 after 8:00 and after 9
o'cl that first 30 minutes you want to
see the market
drop you want to see a measure of
manipulation it doesn't have to only be
in that first 30 minutes but in my mind
I'm thinking I want to see that and if I
got that and it was given to me in
delivery price then my interest in this
move is even more people
I'm really interested in
it if it doesn't do it I'll wait for
more information because it might have a
deeper retracement than I would have
expected initially and then I'll wait
for a breakdown and then having all
these inefficiencies extended over the
market will refer back to them and then
all I have to do is wait for a bus to
get there and then ride that thing down
to Southern town and that's it and be
content with it okay so um
another um suggest
and this is something you'll learn more
about Caleb but for now I want you to
start measuring all the price swings
that form in other words if it's if it's
moved lower this is something you do
after the fact okay don't try to do this
while it's happening but after the fact
okay and it'll teach you range finding
how like how far prices can run you're
going to take the
FIB and your high here you're going to
take that and anchor it to the low
lowest low at
7:00 and this is what my Fibonacci
settings are so that way if you've never
seen them you can see them
now and then you have two and a
half all right so
two which
is one standard deviation would be about
right here and then two standard
deviations and then you got two and a
half which is usually like the extreme
for like the wick purposes where it can
just just get outside the range of what
you'd reasonbly expect and that's kind
of like a ballpark figure same thing
happening on the 8:00 hour you're going
to take the
Fib from the high to the lowest low at
8:00 all right so we have almost all the
lows in here and then we have the
Fibonacci at 9:00 so the high the
highest high 9:00 that form that far
that's far and the lowest
low up to
9:00 and I have to go to standard
deviation one it looks
like
okay so we
have this area in
here this area in here look how close in
proximity that is and then you have this
one here starting at 7 o' so these are
all parameters without using like a
thing like um average daily range we
don't need to use anything like that
these are all ballpark estimates where
it gives you a feel for how far it can
reach
mathematically by itself that's
absolutely useless information useless
but when you incorporate it with real
range like when have over here so we
have below this low that's definitely
something that's possible and if it
really wants to be animated and go below
that low it can go as far as this level
down here and it got real close to it
but fell short of it and that's
fine which is one of the arguments when
we start doing um entries when I start
teaching you how to actually get into
the trades and what you're you know what
you're holding for the
targets what you're holding for and what
it's likely to give you in terms of a a
profit or Target
how to say okay this is how far it can
go but where's the highest degree of
probability where even if it doesn't go
to that specific XYZ Target and that's
the perfect case exit point where am I
going to come to the conclusion that
this is appropriate level for me to
escape the trade and be content with
that even if it moves Beyond it and see
if it still goes 200 handles past where
I'll get out I don't care because this
was such a lined portion of the move I'm
content with that these are type these
are types of strategies I use okay I
look for the the the expansion below the
underlying Market structure and I
reference it with those specific
elements of time and I don't demand that
they give the highest high and the
lowest low I'm looking for a convergence
of these levels in agreement with an
actual old low or an old high doesn't
need to be relative equal highs or
relative equal lows it's just it's
reaching for another uh a pool of
liquidity but for this model that you're
learning you're looking for relative
equal highs to form after 7:00 or
relative equal lows and you're going to
look them the Target that very draw on
liquidity and then as it goes to the
next hour if you don't have one or it
worked off of one already as it did here
at 8:00 you wait for it
again and you
measure that directional bias where it's
likely to go and if it is likely to go
lower your focus your eye this is the
thing you're supposed to walk away with
in terms of the learning today your eye
jumps to all the sell-side and balance
buy side and efficiencies that means the
down close Big Range candles they're all
by themselves that I'm highlighting on
your eye jumps to those okay so when
you're going back and you look at last
week's charts and you do this every
single day of the week Monday Tuesday
Wednesday Thursday and Friday and we sit
down on the weekend and we look at this
week and you'll have last week so you're
going to show me 10 charts or 10 days of
data
but all of this needs to be shown at the
very lowest one minute
chart but referring to things on a 50 m
chart if it's Salient if it has some
relevance to what you're looking for
based on the rules I'm giving here but
all you're doing is limiting your focus
and highlighting okay it's likely to go
lower and reach for relative equal lows
or it's reaching higher for relative
equal highs once you determine that you
stick with it even if it turns against
you this is the part that some of you
going to be uncomfortable hearing
because you think it's going to work out
perfectly for you and is going to keep
moving and you'll want to go do demo
trades or pass funded account challenges
or trade with real money because you
think you've learned it already that's a
mistake that's foolishness don't do that
what you're doing is is you're sticking
with an idea in a process
and my best model isn't
100% my best model model is not 100% so
I have to build in what I have to afford
myself the flexibility that I'm going to
do it wrong I'm going to be overzealous
because if I've allowed social media
other people to be against my idea the
more folks that are like that I get
really excited about that that's when I
do get excited because I know I'm a a
minority in a move in the marketplace
that I know has a huge degree of
probability
and then I you know I many times well
I'll try to outtrade my my methodology
and anticipate the setup which is why I
stress to you don't don't try to
anticipate a setup wait for it to be
there because if it's really there
you'll see
it and contrast that with well you know
I think it's going to go up I just want
to hurry up and get in here because I'm
afraid it might run off without me and I
don't want to wait for the setup and
then you get in then it starts squeezing
against you maybe even trading back to a
level you thought was going to be the
entry for you but now because you
entered at a higher uh level it's
drawing money out of your account and
you're worried about that not well it
was originally going to go to that level
and get me in but then you get out or
you put a stop loss in there too quick
because you don't want to lose too much
money even though that subconsciously
you know you should have never took that
trade okay all those things are managed
and prevented by doing what I'm telling
you to do here don't worry about trading
right now don't worry about entering
anything you need to be focusing on what
is important in the marketplace right
now so if the Market's going to
gravitate lower your eye jumps to only
cbies if you start seeing these cbies
that's these down close big large range
candles you have one here you see
that and then I'm going to close it
we've had enough time today and
uh okay we have the market trade up here
the bodies are pretty much respecting
the this inefficiency the Wicks go back
to this city that acts as an inversion
fair value Gap and then we have this
nice launch
lower disrupting all these relative
equal lows here we expand down through
it and then we trade back up to it and
it breaks lower and then what does it do
here it disregards
it so now something has happened down
here so when you're looking at it spread
out like it it doesn't look so obvious
but when you do something like
this take a step back
this is something I learned from Larry
Williams if if you feel like you're
losing
touch zoom out or go to a higher time
frame and step back away from your
charts look at it from across the room
and you'll see that this looks very
Jagged but when you're zoomed in real
tight it doesn't look
Jagged but this is a disruption in as I
mentioned earlier this morning before it
went below here this would be a
potential area to look for it to to draw
Down based B on any assumptions of this
being a reversal pattern as I outlined
with the breaker in an inversion fair
value G but this right here is made
Jagged smooth made Jagged so what would
we do we look for buy side buy side
would be this high and this high in here
trades above it we don't really have a
high to work off here because this is
the highest one and goes down as we go
over here so it's this High here so this
is in a potential run on this High here
and that's something you can watch today
the rest of the day and study that and
then once it does it if it does it at
all you go back through the price action
and you study what was
there and you pull out the points that
you understand about what it is I teach
Breakers fair value gaps institutional
orderflow entry drills inversion fair
value gaps U mitigation
blocks and the whole the whole thing
everything that that you understand
about it and when you do that and you're
identifying every single one of them you
can see in hindsight what will happen is
is because you're collecting these
screenshots and you're you're you're
expressing your observations in your
journal what will happen is your eye
will start resonating with one
particular entry model what is an entry
model if you think the price is going to
go
lower what is the Catalyst that puts you
in your trade that's your multiplier
that's the thing you're betting on
panning out and based on where you're
trying to get in at versus where the
stop loss should be relative to that
trade idea you're trying to make a
multiple greater than one okay of
whatever you're risking and it need not
be ex exorbitant you don't need to have
two: one you don't need to have 3 to one
you don't need to have four to one you
don't have five to one you just need to
be able to see and anticipate
fluctuations in price that are
reasonable
and it gives you something to study
because the first lesson you need to
know is how you're going to interact
with that soon as it starts moving and
it starts being quick about it even if
it only moves 10 handles you're going to
have a surge of adrenaline and you're
not even in a real trade it's a demo
trade but because you're seeing
something that you anticipated and
starts to run in your favor that sense
of accomplishment and satisfaction is
very very addictive which is the reason
why you go in and you pushing another
Buton on the demo I'm going to do
another trade that felt good let me do
it again let me do it again like someone
scratching your back okay or doing
something else for you you don't want to
find your Happy Endings by over trading
that that's not good okay uh your happy
ending comes by doing very little and
being content with that that's the
secret sauce in trading doing very
little and being content with it
everybody else everybody else and I was
like this before
too you you get a win or you make money
or do something right and that sense of
accomplishment nobody else feels it
because it's it's in your skin that
you're experiencing it and showing
somebody a chart or showing someone the
the move even if you recorded it sure
other Traders can look at that nod and
think yeah that was pretty good that
even if they told you you're the goat it
still isn't going to satisfy you because
you want them to feel that Elation that
orgasmic experience that you felt
because you saw it coming you executed
on it and then it panned out in your
favor and it delivered
with Fierce momentum like it was real
quick and sudden it was immediate
response like it listened to you that's
what it feels like it listened to you
like you had it on a leash you need to
quell that okay you need to quell that
because nobody else is going to feel it
like you want them to and you're going
to be in a Pursuit that always seeks
outward
confirmation and by you doing everything
in your journal and you being an island
unto yourself that means everything you
do you're in charge of this Corporation
this Enterprise that you're creating
you're the CEO you're the CFO you're the
employee you're you're the gender you
got to take the trash out you see it and
sometimes it's going to stink you got to
clean the
toilets you made that mess so it goes
without saying that you should be
focused on trying to keep everything
positive filtering out
negativity and also managing your
exuberance because you don't want it to
be a sugar high all the time because
just like fear can paralyze you and
Cloud your mind when you think you can't
do anything
wrong that's usually when you are going
to fail your worst you like it says in
the Bible it says you know Pride go
before the fall you don't want to be so
high and lofty about yourself in terms
of your thoughts about yourself or your
ability or your
prowess at any time no matter if you
been doing it for 30 plus years or if
you just discover your own routine and
then now it's feels like a model that
you can trust you have to really keep
yourself protected from becoming
emotionally stimulated by your ability
and it needs to be boring it needs to be
monotonous it needs to be like a
business
yeah sure I'm going to do all this stuff
and that might yield me x amount of
dollars if I do it correctly but you're
not focused on that because in the
beginning stages you want this to be so
routine and so dry and boring you can't
be emotional about it it's just making
money or managing losses that's it you
have to reduce it to that and that's
what a business does they're they're not
in the business of worrying about if
they're still going to be in business
they're not doing that they made money
with a business model and they stick to
it and what you're doing with this is
you're starting your own business model
Caleb you have to think about it like
that and everybody that you allow to
influence you or have an interaction
with you they're all going to tell you
something that is ass
backwards you know who I am you see what
I do you see how we lived you know
everything I'm your
dad everybody else's opinion and the
horeshit head up their ass perspective
everybody else is talking from ignorance
okay you see this you've watched it and
you were trying to get serious about it
you want to learn how to do it correctly
like I promised you you cannot go
quickly through this and it's going to
seem boring it's going to feel like I
don't want to do this part I just want
to get in there and push a button if I'm
right I'm right if I'm wrong I'm wrong
that's what a man thinks that's the bar
that's a barbarian or Gladiator
perspective
I need to learn by losing real money or
trading with real money no you don't you
stupid
[__] that's an asshole's perspective
that's somebody that's a [__]
idiot that's someone that's [__]
clueless and I promise you I promise you
they are not making money and I'm
talking about living on your ass doing
whatever the [__] you want to do kind of
money that's a mentorship that doesn't
know shit's mentality I had to learn how
to trade with real money even if it's a
small account that's
[__] that's
[__] and many times it's coming from
the mouths of people that don't prove
they can do anything they don't even go
out there and call it before it happens
let alone trade it with real
money so you have to guard your your
mind from all these other people because
these people they want to they're going
to want to use you as a way of finding
significance in themselves I had to tell
Cody I had to tell Cameron I had to tell
Caleb I had to tell his youngest
son what to do I had to coach him
because ICT his dad was telling him
wrong I had to put him on point all of
you [__] out there are just wanting
to have that opportunity to say
something to him like you somehow fixed
him or you gave him this little Edge and
you you all know [__] you know nothing
you absolutely know nothing
you have no accolades but you want to
feel significant because you want to
feel like you did something you made an
installment in ict's son and that's what
you have to guard yourself from on an
individual basis because soon as you say
you're trying to study what I teach
everybody's going to come at you and
tell you why you shouldn't do it or it's
a complicated
thing no it's
work it's not an indicator push a button
when it tells you here it's a buy or
sell when you don't know what the the
hell that was all about what's the logic
behind
that nobody will tell you because to do
that they're giving you do a proprietary
information that creates that blackbox
scenario where it's a flashing Lux algo
that does this and does that what's the
what's the meth methodology behind it
and you're going to trust that versus
what your own experience doing something
based on time an experience and seeing
the fruits of it the next four weeks or
so you have an experience ment it's very
easy and you'll never have to waste any
more time ever if it doesn't make sense
to you if you can't see it don't ever
expect to learn from me don't ever watch
my videos and just for you Caleb just
expect that you're going to work the
rest of your life because this is as
simple as it
gets that's it it's either going to go
up or it's going to go down why would it
go up it's going to go towards relative
equal highs or it's going to down to
relative equal
lows and if they're not obvious in the
chart what do you do well you force a
trade that's what you do [__] if you can
afford 10 contracts or 15 contracts you
do as much as you
can no you don't do anything you sit on
your hands turn the charts off and say
okay this is not obvious today it's not
obvious if it's not obvious why are you
risking
money casinos operate on the basis of
it's obvious that people are going to
come there with money it's obvious that
this the odds are stacked in their favor
it's obvious that people will not quit
when they're up when they're in profit
they will not stop trading or sorry they
will not they will not stop betting or
gambling because the bug bit them oh man
I'm up $5,000 I only came here with 250
bucks gertude
hey we're going to have a Stak dinner
tonight but I'm coming back down
afterwards I feel like I'm going to make
a real big run yeah you're going to run
run home [__] broke but you had a
good steak
dinner if I would have just stopped
right here it's the same
thing you have to know when the odds are
in your favor and when it's so obvious
it's so
easy that's what I'm pointing out this
stuff and I'm telling people look at
this look at that look at this I'm not
every single day in tanja's live stream
or in uh trades by mat I'm listening to
both of them it's it's like background
noise until I hear something that's
either funny or something that gets my
attention or whatever or if I'm waiting
for a specific trade setup I'll go to
their chat and I'll see if they're in
love with something that's opposed to
what I'm doing and then I'll use them as
sentiment not them particular particular
the the you the live streamers but Their
audience that they allow for their open
discussion of what they think is going
to happen and the more cheerleading they
think or the more backbiting they think
for someone else that has an opinion
that may be similar to mine I am much
more emboldened by my trade idea because
of that very thing and I don't mean that
to be disrespectful but I've I've taught
this openly you know I use social media
as a sentiment gauge and if I have a
trade idea or I I expect the market to
draw to a specific level
and the general public that doesn't
think like I
teach they if they're diametrically
opposed to that to me I like that's the
shest thing there is like I have no I
have no doubts that it's going to pan
out then and then what do I do I share
it publicly I'll go into their chat and
I'll say look at this or note this and
then all of a sudden the people are like
oh look it's ICT he's here and then the
people that are not looking at me like a
celebrity and they're like okay he this
cosigned let's watch and see if it goes
there and they're like damn he just did
it again they're they mind they they got
the they understand the the the plan
they understood the
assignment oh ICT just tipped his hand
this is where it's going
guys but everybody else is talking to me
like hey ICT how you doing hey ICT how
you feeling how hey ICT how you doing on
the robins cup hey ICT remember that guy
that said this about you blah blah blah
we saw some really interesting things
about
him all that stuff is not minding your
own business
all that chat that chatter that's all
wasted time I'm not reading everybody's
comment I don't have time for that I'm
looking for key
words if I'm bearish I want people to
talk about being bullish I'm going long
or I'm long this man I love that I love
that but if I have a trade idea that I'm
not all that terribly excited about
where I think it's it's still in the
early stages of
developing and I see so much chatter
that's very similar to what I'm
expecting I'm not taking that
trade what yeah I'm not taking that
trade because if the street money is in
alignment with what I'm thinking and
it's already a lukew idea
anyway H uh I'm going to side on the
fact that I'm probably
wrong I'll just stand out and there's a
few times and there not many but it's a
few times where I stayed out because of
that and it ran without
and that's okay I can sleep good with
that what I don't like is if I use them
as opposing sentiment and it's not just
these two live streamers don't think I'm
ganging up on them I have respect for
both of them I've pushed both their
channels I think they have The Moxy to
stand out there in front of people they
push the button in front of people they
tell you what their opinions are um you
know
it's to me it's incredible to do because
I I personally would not do that
I I I wouldn't do it frankly none of you
deserve it two I it's just not in my
character to do it because I I will
think about if I'm wrong say I'm wrong
on this trade I knew people were putting
money behind it and if I lose they lost
and I'm going to worry about their money
not mine who's in charge of the
trade my emotions so I I can't I I can't
function that way it's not that I can't
trade it's is I can't trade with that
type of pressure where if I'm wrong and
I can take that loss you might not be in
a situation where you can and you
probably overleveraged your funded
account hoping to get your thing passed
in one day because I took a trade that
made made it public so I worry about
those types of things I I I don't want
that problem of having to worry about
when I put a trade on I don't care it's
either going to work or it's not and I'm
I'm devoid of any emotion about it but
if I have other people that can Co you
know Co tail I don't want that because
it it it becomes a burdensome thing for
me so I I say that because I I know
Caleb wants to potentially grow a
channel into something like what I've
done with mine and I'm not trying to
talk him out of that but I did very very
vocally tell him that you you have to be
content with
enough you know if if he gets his rent
paid or half his rent paid with whatever
the channel does while he's learning
that's a huge advantage and that's going
to be an encouragement for FR his study
more to get good at doing this better
and eventually replacing his income at
his job because that's the that's the
main goal right now is to match what he
earns at his job and then the next goal
is to double that and then after he can
double that consistently then he has to
do two years of saving with whatever he
earns on the channel and what he earns
in trading and what he can save at his
job once he has two years of that salary
then he has my blessing that he can quit
his job but prior to that that he can't
there's no discussion and if he tries to
do it sooner than that I'm not going to
help him because it's
irresponsible you you're setting
yourself up for failure if you do it any
other way and there's nothing different
from what I just said from what I've
said in the past about when you want to
quit and trade
full-time Because unless you have two
years of salary and you've had
consistently being able to double your
income with your
trades you have no business thinking
about quitting your job and I know a lot
of people want to do that because you
know that's the life but you don't
realize when you quit your job you've
made trading
harder you've made it harder because now
you have to eat on your
results and that my friends is very very
difficult unless you know exactly what
you're doing that means knowing when not
to do something and when to do it and
when to push it real hard
because that circumstance that
environment you're inside of right now
it it
really ripe to really be milked and just
take it to the
limits but sometimes when we're brand
new and we're overzealous about getting
in there just to make money you think
that social media influencers and I'm
guilty of this because I can talk
somebody into doing something very
easily because of the hype that I place
around the things that I promote all my
stuff is badass [__] like it's it's top
tier stuff there's nothing like it
and when you see it being implemented
and explained and it happens it doesn't
do anything except for get you like
hopped up on goofballs you really want
to run through a wall you're like I'm
ready to do this right now I ain't got
time for this IC I need to make my bread
right now so the next live stream
whatever you say is going to happen next
time I'm putting money on that one and
if you do that you're an
idiot because you're going to feel
emotions physical stimuli in your body
you're going to feel
adrenaline and that's going to increase
your heart rate and then you're going
start feeling that rush and then you
might think about oh man my hands are
tingling I feel a little excited I feel
like I'm seeing stars and that's
cortisol and that's the stress hormone
which literally will tear you down you
keep doing that and then you're going to
start worrying about what you feel like
versus what's the price action doing
right
now and then I got to walk away from the
charts I gotta I got to just take a walk
real quick if you smoke which you
shouldn't do I got to go get a smoke I
got
my uh vape and stick the [__] in my head
and puff on
that are you in control of yourself
no are you in control of your trade no
are you managing everything soberly
no but you're trying to make
money and it's all the wrong way that's
all the wrong
way when you feel like you have lost the
plot and or you can't see it son
don't feel obligated to tell me what you
think's going to happen be comfortable
saying I don't know today or right now I
don't
know and there's nothing to be ashamed
of in that I be more proud of seeing you
do that than trying to tell me when I
know with experience this is dog [__]
it's not going to do anything it's it's
just going to be a mess it's going to be
unorganized and it's going to do a whole
lot of unfulfilled delivery of price
that means it's just chopping around and
moving around without any real Rhyme or
Reason because it can stay in a Range a
defined range and do nothing extra
outside of that and I don't want to be
involved in a an opportunity like that I
want to have where it's easy to run to a
range
low what range is that well it could be
the range of the 7:00 to 8:00 hour it
could be the range of whatever the
highest high the lowest low since 9:00
or at the opening at
9:30 all these ranges have the potential
for you to have your own unique model
and once it trades to them you get out
you're not trying to get 100 handles
every day but some of you think that's
what you should be doing I got to make
200 handles a week or I'm not killing it
really I have students that have one
contract trades they never do more than
one contract and they're doing $20,000 a
month
month after month after month after
month and they still keep their job they
still have their insurance they're not
trying to impress me with I'm trading
two contracts now they're like I don't
need to change anything this is
good you know what that is that's
maturity and I [__] love that I love
that because that's someone that
listened that's someone that did the
person
inventory on how they interact how do
they engage price action how do they
work within the con straints of being in
a state of not knowing for sure what's
going to happen managing themselves
following the processes and protocols
and just submitting them themselves to
the process and being content with
enough 20 grand a month do you earn that
at your
job chances are no you
don't I promise you most Trading
influencers on social media don't make
that in their
[Music]
trades and I'm certain she could do a
whole lot more oh I shouldn't have said
that well they can do a whole lot more
than
that I'm convinced that they could
because they only take one setup a day
they have a a one trick pony mindset
they're not trying to bring every ICT
Bell and whistle into the uh the
conversation they wait for for one
simple little thing and when it happens
they take the trade they have their stop
loss it's reasonable all the time and
then bang once it's trades to a high or
a low that they know liquidity is
resting at they're done for the day and
it doesn't matter to them when it has
these big range
days how about having something like
that as a mindset initially not that you
have to aim for $2,000 or you're not
successful if you just make one quarter
of your income a week and you lose four
times out of five trades but you were
still able to net that is that is that
failure some of you on social media
would see that that's that's failure
it's
not when you are brand new you better
expect to have those types of results as
a first rung objective or goal because
you're going to flounder in the
beginning you're going to feel like you
don't have what it
takes and you're going to look at days
where it's challenging technically you
know there's days where the market may
appear it's going to do so so obvious
it's going to go here or go there and
I'll get tripped up in that I'm human I
might come into it with a case of the
ass I'm mad about something to happen a
guy cut me off the other day on the road
and I'm still pissed off about
it you know I'm trying to exact revenge
on this guy I'll show him he doesn't
even think about me now and that's what
we do as humans we bring in all of our
mental baggage and we want to have a
Triumph that reminds us that we're we're
more than what everybody else thinks of
us or what we think of ourselves the
previous
day what do you think it's doing
here just like we had over here we had a
disruption we have a disruption down
here so where is their relative equal
highs
here and
here so what are we looking for we want
to see if it can muster the ability to
to poke its head above high the day
over
here I hate when it does that always
jumps last second I got to adjust
it so we have inefficiency here this
could be an immediate rebalance
immediate rebalance is when you have a
extended range or candle that goes up
and then it drops back down and just
touch is the candle high and then starts
to run to an objective or liquidity or
an efficiency something like that we we
as we also have this fair value Gap here
in this case I'd like to see this fair
value Gap stay open not traded entirely
down into that candle high and then
reach up here so these are all little
drills and exercises you can do that
will eventually lead to trade entries
and Trade Stop placement and management
but more specifically it teaches you
expectation anticipatory price uh
reading where you you study charts real
time and you're watching price it has to
be on a real-time basis it can't be a
market replay because Market replay is
like stilted it's like wooden it's
stunted um it doesn't have the fluidity
that a real- Time Candlestick has where
you see the candle like for instance
these are one minute candlesticks so
they can be seen where at one time it
could be looking very much like it's
going to be a down closed candle and all
of a sudden it flips and goes the other
direction that's a dynamic fluid
environment you want to be able to see
price action if if you think you're
going to trade well and consistently
without having that exposure to price
like you can't skip that part and be
good I promise you it it doesn't work
nobody ever gets consistently profitable
without doing some measure of forward
testing and back testing it may be
minuscule for some that are very very
gifted but it's usually failure without
doing it and when you start
understanding the things that I'm
outlining you'll see that there's plenty
of opportunities there's so many
opportunities that are there all day
long but because you have painted
yourself into a
corner you think that there's no way
that I'm going to be profitable unless I
get the big run of the day so I'm going
to start hunting just for the big run of
the day and you might miss the ideal
entry point which that gives me I guess
the perfect opportunity to use that
15sec chart as a lot of you were
thinking earlier when I said we're going
to say this and
quit because this is supposed to be a
short one right um I'll use this as an
opportunity to go into the 15 second
chart in a second I promise I won't
close the live stream until I do that
part because I did mention it earlier
but one of the key takeaways by doing
this mentorship with you is I'm teaching
you son to look at price with these
little tiny little pieces of repeating
phenomenon and they happen at specific
times of the day they happen at a a
measure of frequency that is sustainable
it is going to repeat weeks and months
and years in advance as long as there's
a market these things will manifest they
will they will repeat over and over and
over again all of them will not be
profitable the majority of them tend to
be okay so I'm setting your expectations
and trying to calibrate your
your well expectations to a degree that
you should not be expecting Perfection
okay that's something that should be
first and foremost don't expect
Perfection don't expect everything that
you do to be without
pain it's going to be hard especially in
the beginning where you feel like you
know I have the best of the best dad's
giv me the best of the best so therefore
I should have no expectations for
adversity it's going to be really really
hard
because you don't know the outcome and
as much as you might want to dismiss it
psychologically and say I have I have
the best of the best you still have to
endure the waiting of this to pan out
and you still have to go through the
process of of developing like the rest
of my students there's nothing that
you're going to be subjected to that put
you at the front of the line there's no
shortcuts around this part this is the
stuff that every single profitable
Trader does and this is what they do to
make that money they got to be in front
of the charts they got to submit
themselves to the idea when they coign
and say okay I'm going to assume a trade
and take on that responsibility and risk
they have to agree on if they are wrong
this is what they have to
lose and why compound that by saying I'm
taking a trade Into The Ether saying I'm
going long or I'm going short and this
is where my stop loss is for the sake of
being able to say you did it when you
don't know what you're doing yet or even
when you first find
profitability young men tend to want to
do that because it's like the Gladiator
scenario where they want to do something
to impress everyone making money wasn't
enough for them being profitable wasn't
enough for them they want to be lifted
up on a pedestal and say you are a
goat and that's a sign and character
flaw that is synonymous with men usually
young
men and I don't want you to grow into
that I want you to be humble I want you
to be modest I want you to feel like
you're you're blessed if God gives your
understanding to this and I'm praying
that he gives it to you um when this is
something that you can do on a
consistent basis
you shouldn't go around like a sharp
stick and beat everybody over the head
and say you know you're inferior because
this is what I'm my pedigree is this and
I can do this because I learn this way
of doing it number one it's ugly I won't
be proud of you for doing that I don't
think you would do that but I say that
because I know other people are
listening and they might have that as an
aspiration for I want to do this because
I want to be significant in the industry
I want to make a name for myself for the
sake of clout
and the the best measuring stick is
being content with what you did how you
did it you didn't hurt anybody you
didn't belittle anybody you didn't try
to measure yourself up against anyone
else and you don't concern yourself with
those types of things when you trade and
live your life like that you will have
no drama you'll have no Spirit of
competition that you have to live up to
you don't owe anybody anything you don't
owe Dad any explanations for how you're
doing it you don't know anybody on
social media an explanation of how
you're doing you have no reason to give
anybody a testimony or update of where
you are and how you're doing but if you
choose to do that do it tactfully do it
in a manner where it's disarming you're
not trying to make anybody else feel
like they're inferior you're not looking
at anyone trying to say you know I'm
better at you I'm better at this than
you or I'm going to be faster in
profitability because I I know I
guarantee you there's lots of students
out there right now that are going to
try to race to consistently profitable
with you and that's a that's a a
terrible terrible thing to do because
it's not a
competition you know it may take you
longer than you already think it may
take and I want you to know as your dad
it's okay it's okay there's no rush I'm
not going to ever run out of interest in
trying to help you this is what I've
lived for I've wanted you to do this and
here you go it pans out that was a
immediate
rebalance uh immediate rebalance is here
it trades down touches the candle
rallies up and then we have a order
block it trades down into that and then
expands up to there so if you did
something like that where um
I don't know now I I forgot where the uh
what can because I was so interested in
talking but nonetheless it delivered
where where we thought it would go I
said I wanted to see this stay
open here because that would act as a
breakaway Gap and then yeah this should
have been the immediate rebalance there
and then the next candle is it rallies
up and then it trading back down into
this down close candle which is an order
block it rallies up it completely closes
in this inefficiency one more time Taps
into it there and then finally reaches
up I would absolutely be done I wouldn't
touch anything the rest of the
day there wouldn't be anything else
thatd be interest and it could have all
kinds of excitement right now I wouldn't
touch anything
more why because we have traded down we
had a disruption took out the cell side
after we had a disruption here and now
we've come back and touch the high of
the day so I wouldn't want to worry
about trading in the afternoon I
wouldn't worry about doing anything I
would be content with whatever it is
that you've done whatever you've
collected today in terms of
uh Insight experience logging um
encouragement whatever that is
okay it would be content and and left
right where it is right now but I want
to drop down into a 15c and kind of tell
you what I was talking about as we
started this live
stream let me go down into the
15sec
chart let's highlight this
first all right and then we'll make
that green so it's it's
highlighting so here's the five minute
price run in here okay and this is the
immediate rebalance right there so I'm
going to draw a little line on that
and as you see everything I'm doing here
it's highlighting
it it's highlighting it on the 15sec
chart okay and now we can take our
attention over here so I annotated
everything that I was talking about and
expecting on the one minute chart real
time with you and now we're inside this
price run so I'm going to talk about and
what I mentioned to my private
mentorship the other day um
this is the uh price delivery Continuum
Theory where you have an expectation
where price is going to gravitate to and
it gives
you a continuous opportunity for you to
be a participant in it because the
markets are fractal they're going to
offer you setups on one time frame and
then that time frame has once it's
expired all of its opportunities that's
used for an entry
mechanism you can't do anything else
unless you're going to just chase price
I don't chase price okay I'm going to
show you how you can effectively and
efficiently use a 15-second chart should
you ever want to do so you don't have to
okay but you're going to find that it is
very
forgiving for Traders that have missed
an ideal
entry and
uh or wants to um I'm going to say this
but please do not take this as an
invitation to start doing it yet because
pyramiding and adding to a trade that's
winning that is very very challenging
for me as a mentor to teach that because
I already know that you want to do as
much as you can to make money as fast as
you can you see all these people out
here to have 15 16 20 accounts and
they're doing lots of withdrawals pretty
sizable withdrawals from from Trading
all that
and it's it's important for you to be
comfortable being consistent with small
trades in the beginning because if you
can be consistent making small trades
you're building the the mindset you're
building the
uh well the skill set really that's the
best way of saying it to adhere to rules
and not Chase extra
money and you're going to want to do
bigger bigger bigger trades all the time
especially if you start sharing your
results with people on social social
media because the novelty will wear off
fast you know when you buy a really nice
sports car everybody around you your
friends and your neighbors and they're
like oh wow that's really nice five
weeks later they might look at you as
you go down the road but they're not
they're not
saying that only happens the first time
everything's got a novelty um aspect to
it it everything wears away and when you
start being profitable if those trades
are by most of the industries
expectations you know $1,000 a week
that's
awesome I'm a millionaire and I'm
telling you now if you can make $1,000 a
week trading you're doing really good
there's nothing to be ashamed of that's
actually something to be very very proud
of but what happens if you can only make
$200 right now or in the first three or
four months of you trying to do this
that's not
failure failure is I'm quitting and I'm
never going to put more effort into this
that's that's that's that's
bad so you have to load your expectation
but anyway as I was showing on the one
minute chart it was likely to come back
down and touch the top of the candle and
then start to expand up into this blue
level okay that was the initial high of
the day right at 7 o'clock in the
morning using the morning
session and if you look at what was
happening here it traded up and then
came right back down you see
that what's what is occurring
there what's occurring here it's coming
right back down and it's
rebalancing the inefficiency of this
quick sudden price run from this close
to that
close that's what's occurring so what
the algorithm does it refers back to
that price point at that time and this
is what goes on the market algorithm
starts from a higher time frame and
refers to key price points that are
Salient to where it's at right now
at given sets of time as I'm teaching
you here it will refer to close
proximity points of reference and that
means things like this where we have a
quick sudden run like this in a
15-second chart in a 5-second chart a
onec chart it's cycling through very
very fast the the the mechanism that's
it's it's going through all these
calculations so
fast you can't keep up with with with
actually going on so when I had to sit
down and create a language to try to
compare and contrast the closest thing I
can and not break any agreements this is
what you have you have this visual
representation of it where it's likely
to draw to this level and just above
it it comes back down and where there's
an absence of a fair offer for buying on
a Down
tick okay you ever hear how U like when
the when the circuit breakers go off on
the the market where it goes too far One
Direction there's a circuit breaker they
halt trading say for instance the the
market goes down too fast too much at
one time and they pause trading until
the market starts to tick up okay
there's a lot of high frequency trading
algorithms that operate and engage in
the marketplace like that so they're
filtering out of they're not trying to
buy when the Market's expanding
up but what their algorithm seeks is
these inefficiencies here and then they
once they get inside that range once it
meets that threshold of trading into it
then once it's met then it trades the
first down tick after
that and then their algorithm fires
entry uh orders to get
long knowing that the is repricing here
you can if you have the benefit of
looking at time in sales you can look at
how many contracts were traded here from
here that's not a lot of contracts
that's not a lot of contracts from here
to there it doesn't take a lot of
contracts to move price it just needs
one contract to book and show time of
sales it's not volume that's moving
price volume precedes price that's a
textbook right out of every retail
language book there
is volume precedes
price what does that mean there's going
to be a lot of
volume in this area down here why
because it took stops out what's below
here sell stops so volume will be larger
here then it will be in
here CU this is all discovery this is
all
going to levels that are outside the
range and while there might be buy stops
above this blue line that I
indicated the further above that line we
get the less volume there will be
because everybody wants to have a stop
loss real close to a
level and it's thinner as it gets up
here and that's why you start to see the
price start having all these big gaps
because it's pressing higher and higher
and higher the algorithm is just going
to repice higher whether you want to be
a buyer or everybody collectively wants
to be a buyer
it's programmed to keep offering that
price because someone is always coming
in with a sell order at market and a buy
order at Market guess what that does it
gives you the counterparty and it's
going to book price you can sit on your
hands and talk about how you're not
going to buy it because it's this that
and the other thing there's always some
Market orders coming in always and the
algorithm knows that that function of
liquidity is always present so it will
constantly offer higher prices and it
doesn't matter how many Tom Dixon
Harry's from Goldman
Sachs okay or well I like kicking them
around we'll just leave it at that all
these large investment firms no matter
how many Vol how much volume they got or
they're trying to push into the
marketplace they're not pressing price
down they might gloat and say yeah we
did this we did that but they're not
doing
[__] they're stuck in the same delivery
Paradigm that every one of us is
too the Market's going to go where
they're going to go regardless of how
much buying and selling pressure there
it is period in a story and the common
uh equation I uh or not equation but
analogy I like to use is you know when
there's a limit up Limit Up move in the
marketplace how many contracts does it
take to cause the market to open up
Limit Up say you're trading silver and
the markets are closed and then we open
up and we open up limit up how many
contracts does it take to cause that
trade to be locked limit up just one
just one contract
because it's price
oriented but it opened at a time when
that first price was offered at the
furthest extreme that the exchanges
wellow and that means that you have a
limit up move so buying and selling
pressure is not it okay it's time and
price so in here we have price dropping
down to overlap this in efficiency
there's no Gap in here is there is there
any Gap in
here sure there is
look I'm not Chris Lori when a when
there's a uh
inefficiency if it comes down and closes
it in I'm not done with it
relative equal highs here fair value gy
it trades outside of it comes back down
into it here with a one
minute immediate rebounds so it's
trading down to a deeper discount so
this is your first return in after
taking the buy side here but this is
left intact so this is still in play so
it's dropping down that right there
would have been a 15sec long for me if I
would have been buying down in here or
if I was long here this would be another
area where I could go long and add
another partial but it couldn't be
larger than one
contract why because we're we're long in
the tooth with the price run and my
limit order would be just above here it
wouldn't be up
here oh ICT you should have been looking
for something like that why the low
hanging fruit is just above here that's
all I want that's where the largest
degree of volume is going to be because
the order is going to be closer to the
levels that are expected the algorithm
is going to repic because it's going to
do the function of what a wick does
where it does the damage it go it colors
outside the line just like your son or
daughter will and she's doing exactly
what she's coded to do but I need to be
efficient with executions and remove the
element of fear and greed and regret so
I'm going to take where it's obvious for
me to get
out if you start getting out at the
highest high and getting in at the
lowest low all the time you're going to
experience broker problems they're going
to slip you they're going to do requotes
and you're going to miss because if
they've been bbuing you and you'll know
they've been bbuing you if you start
getting that kind of stuff and you're
winning then they'll start messing with
you because you're taking money out of
their hands you get mad about all you
want oh this is it's wrong it doesn't
matter you give them permission when you
signed up this the way it is if they can
get you out with the liquidity then they
will but they can't guarantee it
so there's their gray
area so the 15-second chart when you see
things on a onee five minute chart it
gives you opportunity for you to get in
alignment now let's just say for sake of
argument when I was calling the one
minute uh institu one minute immediate
rebalance and expecting it to run up
here okay that is a 40 handle run or
more the live streamers on YouTube most
of them don't see that
they get out with like five handles 15
handles 10 they might say they're aiming
for 20 and they get out at whatever they
their emotions push them out of the
market with and you never really you
never really see them enter you don't
you don't see when they're actually
telling you this is where it's happening
right now they they have a Target that's
a lofty one they say I think it's going
to go up here and then they'll say well
see I called it who's doing it like us
and they show you the trade after the
fact
they do that because they don't do what
I'm teaching you to do right here and
they're going to start doing it trust me
and then when they do it their trading
will improve and they'll get more
confident about pushing the button at
the execution points from beginning to
end and then they can earn the title of
number one day trader on YouTube but
until they do that they can't so let's
say I missed this opportunity to be long
there okay we have a down closed candle
inside of a fair value Gap that came
back down into an old in efficiency as
well after the first run above here this
is all extra credit stuff okay so this
is this is more or less not for you
Caleb it's for the people that are
familiar with my stuff but just want a
little bit more iceing on the
cake when it trades back down into this
down close candle here that could be a
buy for me as well that one and we can
look at this little Gap right there see
that that's all it takes trades down to
here my limit order would be just above
midpoint of that Wick I'm not demanding
it gets me filled in there because I may
not get it so I'll be a little bit more
forgiving and placing a limit order
there and then I could use that to get
in sync with the run if I felt like it
was going to go higher I'm just teaching
on the basis of how to use the 15-second
chart and how it gives you a plethora of
entries there's so many entries offered
on a 5sec and a 15-second chart that you
don't see in a one minute chart but the
algorithm is doing the same thing you're
telling me that people are looking at
chart and they're looking at reference
points that I've classically defined now
is as PD arrays the market keeps going
back to these price points you mean to
tell me everybody that learned from
online trade Academy and supply and
demand that they're all looking at
15-second charts and they and they're
stopping the market right at these
levels their buying is stopping it right
at those levels and it's keying off of
that stuff precisely you're full of [__]
it ain't happening Jack it's all
algorithmic and it doesn't matter how
many buying in selling a specific number
of contracts the price is going to go
where it's going to go because it's
scripted and it's going to go there
based on time that's the way it works
and you can argue with me and I don't
care you're never going to convince me
otherwise because I'm out here doing it
I'm out here telling you what it's going
to do beforehand you're going to argue
it in in a hindsight capacity if you
want to have a a session where we sit
down together and you're going to
explain things retail I would love that
I would love that I will do a live
stream and they could be on one side of
the screen and we can take turns talking
about what we think's going to happen
and I will run circles around you I will
literally lay down every single price
move all day long but they'll they'll
have nothing to say
then they won't but other people will
still say well that was just one day I
was just you know he got
lucky it's fun it's really fun but
anyway um the 15sec chart affords you
that as a mechanism okay it also gives
you the ability to reduce your stop loss
okay make it a little bit tighter not
that you should be trading with really
early small stop losses in the beginning
because it's important for you to read
price appropriately and effectively and
efficiently first and then eventually
you know when you're into the the part
of taking trades where you have to
manage real risk and real money uh then
these types of conversations are much
more pertinent to the discussion but
right now it's so outside the scope of
what Caleb needs right now it's it's not
important at all it's absolutely Ely
zero importance zero but I wanted to
kind of like outline Something Real Time
and and give you a feel for how you can
make bread and butter setups and they're
real easy to see like it if you
understand where the draw is what it's
done it it made something Jagged down
here and it made something Jagged down
here and it
left that
high in this high in place it's
relatively equal when you had the chart
spr spread out like this it doesn't look
like that but when you compress
it we're back in the same discussion of
okay it it failed to get back to that
one so the second one was lower so what
does that mean it's a high probability
relative equal High the market will
repic to that because it wants to
disrupt it wants to disrupt it wants to
be that cousin
or in-law that comes to the cookout that
you really don't want
there that's what the market does okay
and when you understand that you'll
you'll do better in your trades but I've
gone on no today I've really overstayed
my welcome I'm I'm tired I'm hungry and
I want to get off here so hopefully you
found this one insightful if you did I
would appreciate a thumbs up it doesn't
mean you love me it just means that you
learned something today and you're
continuously getting a deposit in your
understanding and that's like a report
card for me to either continue or or not
if there's 100,000 people watching and
there's less than 177,000 uh that's
going to be very discouraging I might
take tomorrow off if that's the case so
let that be a little factor in whether
or not you want to give me feedback
until I talk to you next time be safe